Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

 

LOAN NUMBER 8240-MA

Loan Agreement

(Second Development Policy Loan in Support of the Plan Maroc Vert)
between
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated April 16, 2013

en ee oD
erence re
LOAN NUMBER 8240-MA
LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT dated April 16, 2013, entered into between KINGDOM OF
MOROCCO (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of
the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Bank has decided to
provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions which the Borrower has
already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and (b) the Borrower’s maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic
policy framework. The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01. The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

1.02. Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.

ARTICLE II — LOAN

2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred fifty million Euros
(€150,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this
Agreement (“Loan”).

2.02. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program
in accordance with Section II of Schedule | to this Agreement.

2.03. The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.

2.04. The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article TV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by
2.08.

3.01.

-2-

the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.

The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

(a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(1) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; and (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread.

(b) Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.

Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 of Section II of the Appendix to this
Agreement and relating to Cooperation and Consultation), the Borrower shall
promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this
Article If as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request.

ARTICLE II — PROGRAM

The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.
To this end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions:

(a) the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of
either party, exchange views on the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy
framework and the progress achieved in carrying out the Program;

(b) prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in
4.01.

4.02.

5.01.

6.01.

6.02.

-3-

carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request; and

(c) without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
Section, the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation
that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the
Program or any action taken under the Program including any action
specified in Section I of Schedule | to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that a

situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a
significant part of it, will be carried out.

The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that the
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a
period of sixty (60) days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to
the Borrower.

ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that
the Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out

the Program and with the adequacy of the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy
framework.

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.

ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Economy and Finance.
The Borrower’s Address is:

Ministére de l’Economie et des Finances

Avenue Mohammed V

Rabat

Kingdom of Morocco

Cable address: Facsimile:

MINFIN 212-537-67-75-30/31
6.03. The Bank’s Address is:

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America

Cable address: Telex: Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 64145(MCI)

AGREED at Rabat, Kingdom of Morocco, as of the day and year first above
written.

KINGDOM OF MOROC

   

By:

 

Authorized Representative

Name:_H.E. Nizar Baraka

 

Title:_Minister of Economy and Finance

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By:

 
 

Authorized Representative

  

Name:_Simon Gray

Title:_Country Director
-5.-

SCHEDULE 1

Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds

Section I. Actions Taken under the

 

Program
See ake under the Program

The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following:

Improve the Efficiency of Domestic Markets

1.

The agreement between the municipality of Berkane, MAPM, and MI
introducing a new management model in the Berkane fruit and vegetable
wholesale market, has been signed on February 14, 2013.

The specifications for technical, administrative and contractual requirements for
operating municipal slaughterhouse concessions have been adopted by inter-
ministerial decision No. 59 of MAPM and MI dated October 16, 2012.

Decree No. 2-12-612 dated December 4, 2012, amending and completing the
Order (Arrété) dated September 28, 1955, on control over hygiene and
cleanliness of market meats, and the associated Order (Arrété) No. 3466-12
dated December 4, 2012, issued by MAPM and MI, on the conditions of the
entry and selling of market meats, have been published in the National Gazette
No. 6115 dated January 7, 2013.

Improve the Socio-Economic Impacts of Projects Directed to Small Farmers

4.

Fifty-four pre-selection technical committees for projects directed to small
farmers at the de-concentrated level, have been established by MAPM in 2012.

Law No. 04/12 on contract farming has been published in the National Gazette
No. 6070 dated August 2, 2012.

Improve Agricultural Services

6.

The National Coordination Committee for Agricultural Research, Extension, and
Training Activities has been established by MAPM on October 20, 2011 and the
sixteen Regional Coordination Committees for Agricultural Research, Extension,
and Training Activities have been established by MAPM with uniform rules of
operation in 2011 and 2012.

The National Agricultural Advisory Services Strategy and Action Plan for
Delivering Agricultural Advisory Services, and the associated sixteen regional
action plans, have been adopted by MAPM on March 9, 2011 and May 9, 2012,
respectively.
-6-

8. Decree No. 2-10-473 dated September 6, 2011, implementing Law No. 28/07 on
the sanitary safety of food products, has been published in the National Gazette
No. 5984 dated October 6, 2011, and four associated implementing Orders
(Arrétés) have been submitted for approval by MAPM to the Secretary General
of the Government in 2012.

9. The cost-recovery system for veterinary and food products safety services has
been adopted by inter-ministerial decision of MAPM and MEF dated August 30,
2011.

Improve the Use and the Management of Irrigation Water and the Planning of
Irrigation Infrastructure

10. The draft Law amending Law No. 23/97 on farmers’ financial contribution to the
costs of modernizing off-farm irrigation systems, has been submitted by MAPM
to the Secretary General of the Government on October 9, 2012.

11. The draft Laws creating the ORDARs and setting the basis for the establishment
of subsidiaries of the ORDARs, which will be in charge of irrigation
management and which will have the legal personality and financial autonomy,
have been submitted by MAPM to the Secretary General of the Government on
January 15, 2013.

12. Adequate funding for the irrigation perimeters located downstream of dams
under construction has been allocated in the Borrower’s budget laws for 2010,
2011, 2012 and 2013.

Section IT, Availability of Loan Proceeds

A. General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank
may specify by notice to the Borrower.

B. Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan (except for amounts required to pay the
Front-end Fee) is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche, from which the
Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds. The allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below:
Amount of the Loan
Allocated

expressed in Euro
(1) Single Withdrawal Tranche 149,625,000

(2) Front-end Fee 375,000

TOTAL AMOUNT 150,000,000

Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions. No withdrawal shall be made of the
Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank is satisfied: (a) with the Program
being carried out by the Borrower; and (b) with the adequacy of the Borrower’s
macroeconomic policy framework.

      
 
 

     
   
 

     

Deposits of Loan Amounts. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:

l. all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank
into a dedicated account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to
the Bank; and

2. the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the

Loan into this account: (i) an equivalent amount is accounted for in the
Borrower’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the
Bank; and (ii) a confirmation in writing of such operation is sent to the
Bank.

Audit. Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall:

l. have the account referred to in Section II.D.1 above audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with
consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Bank;

2. furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than
four (4) months after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a
certified copy of the report of such audit, of such scope and in such detail
as the Bank shall reasonably request; and

3. furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the account
referred to in Section II.D.1 above and its audit as the Bank shall
reasonably request.
-8-

Excluded Expenditures. The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the
Loan shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines
at any time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an
Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank,
refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts
refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled.

Closing Date. The Closing Date is March 15, 2014.
-9.

SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date (‘Installment Share”). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.

Installment Share
Principal Payment Date (Expressed as a Percentage)

On each May 15 and November 15
Beginning May 15, 2020
through May 15, 2041

On November 15, 2041

 

If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:

(a) To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1
of this Schedule.

(b) Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share’’)
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
-10-

amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.

(a) Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.

(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs | and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.

If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.
-ll-

APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions
l. “Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure:
(a) for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or

international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit,
or grant;

(b) for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the
Borrower:

121
122

          
 

Description of Item
Alcoholic beverages

Tobacco, un-
manufactured, tobacco
refuse

Tobacco, manufactured
(whether or not containing
tobacco substitutes)

Sub-group

  
 
 
  
  

—
Ss

    
 
 

  
 
  
 
 

 
 

525 Radioactive and associated
materials

667 Pearls, precious and
semiprecious stones,
unworked or worked

718 718.7 Nuclear reactors, and parts

   

thereof; fuel elements
(cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear
reactors

728 728.43 Tobacco processing
machine

897 897.3 Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals
(except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths’ or
silversmiths’ wares
(including set gems)

 
      
  
     
 
     

  
  

    
-12-

Description of Item

Gold, non-monetary
(excluding gold ores and

     

(c) for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
consumption;
(d) for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of

which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international
agreements to which the Borrower is a party;

(e) on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the
United Nations; and

(f) with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent,
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the
Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower
(or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action
satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated March 12, 2012 with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.

“MAPM” means Ministére de l'Agriculture et de la Péche Maritime, the
Ministry of Agriculture and Maritime Fisheries of the Borrower, or any successor
thereto.

“MEF” means Ministére de l’Economie et des Finances, the Ministry of
Economy and Finance of the Borrower, or any successor thereto.

“MI” means Ministére de l'Intérieur, the Ministry of Interior of the Borrower, or
any successor thereto.

“ORDAR” means Office Régional de Développement Agricole et Rural, a
Regional Agricultural and Rural Development Office of the Borrower.

“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to
support the implementation of the Borrower’s agricultural strategy and set forth
or referred to in the letter dated February 7, 2013, from the Borrower to the Bank
declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and
-13-

requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its
execution.

“Single Withdrawal Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the
category entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of
Section II of Schedule | to this Agreement.

Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions

 

The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:

I.

The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.

Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered
accordingly.

Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management;
Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly.

Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above
and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.

Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3
above) is modified to read as follows:

“Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records

(c) The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures
under the Loan until two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower
shall enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.”

Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3
above) is modified to read as follows:

“Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation

- (c) The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and
furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a
report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by the Loan
 

-14-

Parties and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Legal
Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.”

The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered
accordingly:

(a) The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as
follows:

“Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put
in support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures
excluded pursuant to the Loan Agreement.”

(b) The term “Financial Statements” and its definition are deleted in their
entirety.

(c) The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is
modified to read as follows (and all references to “Project” throughout
these General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program’”):

‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan
Agreement in support of which the Loan is made.”
