Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

 

 

 

LOAN NUMBER 8254-IN

Loan Agreement

(Second Kerala State Transport Project — KSTP-II)
between
INDIA
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT |

Dated A yuo LA 2013

 

 
LOAN NUMBER 8254-IN

LOAN AGREEMENT

Agreement dated Ftd \F , 2013, between INDIA (“Borrower”) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”). The

Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:

1.02.

2.02.

2.03.

2.04.

2.05.

2.06.

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.

Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.

ARTICLE lf — LOAN

The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of two hundred sixteen million United States Dollars
(USD216,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement (“Project”).

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. .

The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.

The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to
the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread ; provided, that upon
a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest
payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be
determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General
Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan

Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty .

days, then the interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in
Section 3.02 (e) of the General Conditions.

The Payment Dates are March 15 and September15 in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07.

3.02.

(a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the
interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or
vice versa; or (B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a
Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference
Rate.

(b) Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in the
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.

(c) Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium
payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section [IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE HI — PROJECT

The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project Implementing Entity in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and the Project
Agreement.

Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement.
5.01.

5.02.

5.03.

ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

The Borrower’s Representative is any of the following officials, acting severally:
Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary, or Under
Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs in the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance.

The Borrower’s Address is:

Secretary

Department of Economic Affairs
Ministry of Finance

Government of India

North Block

New Delhi 110001, India

Facsimile:

91-11-23092039

The Bank’s Address is:

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America

Cable address: Telex: Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 64145(MCI)

| i A LE
AGREED at New Delhi, India, as of the day and year first above written.

INDIA

By

a
Authorized Representative

Title: Joik7 SGewEemn, DEA

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

WO ZS

Authorized Representative

Name: (’ nn o By |

Title: County i Ge cin Indie
SCHEDULE 1

Project Description

The objective of the Project is to improve condition, traffic flow and road safety with a

focus on Vulnerable Road Users on selected roads in Kerala.

The Project consists of the following parts:

Component A: Road Network Upgrading and Safety Improvement

l.

(1) Upgrading approximately 281 kilometers of State Highways from single-lane
road to full two-lane road standards, including enhancing road safety and traffic
management measures; and

(ii) providing supervision and quality control services for the foregoing activities and
the implementation of/compliance with the relevant EMF, EIAs, EMPs and RAP.

(1) Designing and piloting a private-public partnership concession arrangement for
the upgrade of approximately 82 kilometers of State Highways from single-lane
road to full two-lane road standards, including enhancing road safety and traffic
management measures, as well as the subsequent operation and maintenance
thereof; and

(11) providing independent performance assessment and quality control services for
the foregoing activities and the implementation of/compliance with the relevant
EMF, EIAs, EMPs and RAP.

Component B: Road Safety Management

l.

Developing and implementing an approximate 80 kilometers road safety demonstration
plan on a selected road corridor, consisting of multi-sectoral interventions including
physical infrastructure innovations, the adoption of best practices for behavioral

interventions and eliciting users behavioral changes.

Implementing a co-financing incentive program (the “Challenge Fund”) for the
development of safe corridors/zones through local partnerships with District Road Safety
Councils.

Strengthening the capacity of the RSA and the PWD for the adoption of international best
practices in road safety management, and sharing information and experiences.

Component C: Institutional Strengthening Component

I.

Strengthening the institutional and financial capacity of the PWD, and related entities, in

order to develop and maintain the adequacy of the physical assets of Kerala’s road

network through, inter alia: (i) the assessment of institutional options for managing and
financing the state road network; (ii) the development of new asset management policies,

_5-
TT]

systems and software; (iii) the review and update of the management information system;
(iv) the carrying out various technical studies, including the preparation of architectural
plans for a green building, feasibility studies and the design of contracts for maintenance
activities; (v) the development and implementation of a project management system; and
(vi) capacity building and training thereof.

Improving public interface in the development of the road network, through: (i) the
carrying out of regular road user surveys; (ii) the development of a PWD-specific
communications strategy and associated website; (iii) the implementation of improved
sectoral governance measures; and (iv) incentivizing local ownership of network assets.
and engagement in social and environmental activities.

 
SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Section I. Implementation Arrangements

Institutional and On-Lending Arrangements

To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make the proceeds of the
Loan available to the Project Implementing Entity in accordance with the Recipient’s
standard arrangements for developmental assistance to the States of India.

The Borrower shall protect its own interests and the interests of the Bank to accomplish
the purpose of the Financing.

Anti-Corruption

The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines and those of the GAAP.

Section II. Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

A.

Project Reports

The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to monitor and evaluate the
progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators as agreed with the
Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar quarter, and shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the period
covered by such report.

Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits

The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions.

Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall cause
the Project Implementing Entity to prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty
five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim financial reports for the
Project covering the calendar quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.

The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to have its Financial
Statements audited, all in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the
General Conditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one
fiscal year of the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity, commencing with the
fiscal year in which the first withdrawal was made. The audited Financial Statements for
each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end
of such period.
Section III. Procurement

A.

l.

General

Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. All goods, works and non-consulting
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.

Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and
with the provisions of this Section.

Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to
the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the Procurement Guidelines,
or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.

Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services

International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2
below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.

Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. The
following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used for
procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for those contracts specified in
the Procurement Plan: (a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional
provisions set forth in the Procurement Plan; (b) Shopping; (c) Direct Contracting; (d)
Force Account; and (e) Procurement under Public Private Partnership Arrangements in
accordance with procedures which have been found acceptable to the Bank. — |

Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services

 

Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality-
and Cost-based Selection.

Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following methods,
other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, may be used for procurement of
consultants’ services for those contracts which are specified in the Procurement Plan: (a)
Selection under a Fixed Budget; (b) Least Cost Selection; (c) Selection based on
Consultants’ Qualifications; (d) Single-source Selection of consulting firms; and (e)
Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for the
Selection of Individual Consultants.
D. Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s
Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.

Section IV. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

 

A. General

1. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World Bank
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by
the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to
finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.

2. The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible
Expenditures in each Category.

; Category Amount of the Loan Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated to be Financed
expressed in USD inclusive of Taxes
(1) Goods, works, non-consulting :
services, consultants’ services,
and Workshops & Training for 182,460,000 56%
Components A.1, B and C under
the Project
33,000,000 100%
Section 2.03 of this Agreement
in accordance with Section 2.07
(4) Interest Rate Cap or Interest Amount due pursuant to Section
Rate Collar premium 2.07(c) of this Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT 216,000,000, |

       

     
   
     
 

(2) Goods, works, non-consulting
services and consultants’

services under Component A.2
of the Project

   
     
  

   
  

   
 
  

   

    
 
   
  

(3) Front-end Fee

 

Amount payable pursuant to
540,000
b) of the General Conditions

   
  
 

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made for
payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed USD 12,000,000 equivalent may be made for payments -
made prior to this date but on or after June 15, 2012, for Eligible Expenditures under
Category (1). :

The Closing Date is April 30, 2019.

-10-
SCHEDULE 3

Amortization Schedule

l. The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment
Date (“Installment Share”). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b)
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule,
to which a Currency Conversion applies.

Principal Payment Date : Installment Share
Expressed as a Percentage

On each March 15 and September 15 of each
year,

     
     
    

  

beginning September 15, 2018 through
September 15, 2030

On March 15, 2031

     

2. If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:

(a) To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance
as of such date in accordance with paragraph | of this Schedule.

(b) Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph | of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original
Installment Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.

3. (a) Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal

-j1l-
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.

(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of
such billing system. | "

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.

If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the

provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.

-12-

 

 
APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

l.

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”,
dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.

“Challenge Fund” means the amount of the Loan allocated from time to time to Sub-
component B.2 of the Project for the financing of safe corridors/zones pursuant to the
provisions of Section I.D of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.

“Construction Supervision Consultant” means the consulting firm to be contracted by the
Project Implementing Entity, pursuant to Section I.A.2 of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement, for purposes of carrying out the supervision of contractors’ performance in
the implementation of civil works under Sub-component A.1 of the Project.

“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers”
dated January 2011.

“Displaced Persons” means persons who, on account of the execution of the Project, have
experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts caused by: (a) the
involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets
or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources or means of livelihood, whether or not
such persons must move to another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to
legally designated parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impact on the
livelihoods of such persons.

“District Road Safety Councils” means the district councils established by the Project
Implementing Entity pursuant to Kerala Road Safety Act (2007) to be responsible to
address road safety issues at the district-level.

“Environmental Impact Assessments” and the acronym “EIAs” mean the Project
Implementing Entity’s environmental assessments dated December 14, 2012, assessing
the likely positive and negative environmental impact of Project activities to be carried
out in Links 69, 68, 74, 84.1 and 84.2 of the State Highways; as such assessment may be
revised, updated or supplemented from time to time with the prior concurrence of the
Bank.

“Environmental Management Framework” and the acronym “EME” mean the Project
Implementing Entity’s framework, dated December 14, 2012, setting for the guiding
principles acceptable standard and procedures for: (i) the screening of Project activities to
be carried out in Links 4, 5, 41 and 47 of the State Highways, or such other links as may
be agreed in writing between the Project Implementing Entity and the Bank, and the

-13-
11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

17.

identification of any adverse or positive environmental impacts caused, or expected to be
caused, on account of their implementation; and (ii) for the preparation of their prescribe
environmental management plans; as such framework may be revised, updated or
supplemented from time to time with the prior concurrence of the Bank.

“Environmental Management Plans” and the acronym “EMPs” mean the Project
Implementing Entity’s plans dated December 14, 2012, setting out mitigation,
enhancement, monitoring and institutional measures, including capacity building through
training, required to: (i) eliminate any adverse environmental impacts of activities to be
implemented under the Project in the Links of the State Highways covered by the
Environmental Impact Assessments (Links 68, 69, 74, 84.1 and 84.2); (ii) offset them, or
reduce ‘them to acceptable levels; and/or (iii) enhance any positive impacts thereof; as
such plans may be revised, updated or supplemented from time to time with the prior
concurrence of the Bank.

“ESMC” means the Project Implementing Entity’s Environmental and Social
Management Cell established within the PWD under the First Kerala State Transport
Project (Loan 4653-IN), and referred to in Section I.A.1(d) of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement.

“Evaluation Committee” means the Project Implementing Entity’s procurement
committee established within the PWD under the First Kerala State Transport Project
(Loan 4653-IN), and referred to in Section 1.A.1(c) of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement.

“Pirst Kerala State Transport Project” means the transport project financed by the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development pursuant to a loan agreement for
an amount of USD255,000,000 entered into with the Borrower on May 6, 2002, and a
project agreement, of same date, entered into with the Project Implementing Entity.

“FM Manual” means the manual dated March 11, 2013 adopted by PWD for purposes of
the Project, which provides detail guidance on segregation of financial management
duties, internal control protocols, accounting and record keeping procedures, funds flow
arrangements, withdrawal applications procedures, asset management, reporting and
auditing arrangements applicable to the Project; as such manual may be revised, updated
or supplemented, from time to time, with the prior concurrence of the Bank.

“GAAP” means the Project Implementing Entity’s governance and accountability action
plan dated February 13, 2013, adopted by the PWD pursuant to GO MS No.
16/2013/PWD, for purposes of the Project, which sets out the key actions to be
undertaken by the Project Implementing Entity to strengthen governance, transparency
and accountability under the Project; as such action plan may be revised, updated or
supplemented, from time to time, with the prior concurrence of the Bank.

“Gram Panchayats” means self-government units at village/town level constituted under
the Kerala Panchayat Raj Act (1994) of the Project Implementing Entity.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated March 12, 2012.

.14-

 

|

nn
. rar ted .

riche AEM re ethos pistons

Ne nt ne ER TR A frets
7 > rae SME KE Seely Stab a dete ah f te fl beets

nn et

etna nd neta

as etm
20.

21.

22.

23.

24.

25.

26.

27.

28.

29.

“Independent Engineer” means the consulting firm to be contracted by the Project
Implementing Entity, pursuant to Section I.A.3(a) of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement, for purposes of monitoring the concessionaire’s performance under the
public-private partnership concession arrangement to be piloted under Sub-component
A.2 of the Project.

“Kerala” means the Borrower’s state of Kerala, formed and recognized pursuant to the
Borrower’s States Reorganization Act of 1956; as well as any successor thereto.

“Kerala Water Authority” means the Project Implementing Entity’s water supply cum
sewage services authority, established pursuant to Kerala Water Supply and Sewerage
Act (1986); or any successor thereto.

“KSTP” means the Project Implementing Entity’s project management team established
within the PWD under the First Kerala State Transport Project (Loan 4653-IN), and
referred to in Section I.A.1(b) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.

“Primbilavu-Perinthalmanna Link” means the approximately 42 kilometers road corridor
linking the localities of Primbilavu, a village in the Thrissur district of Kerala, and
Perinthalmanna, a town and municipality in the Malappuram district of Kerala.

“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and
Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers” dated January 2011.

“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, dated March
15, 2013 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph
1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in
accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. :

“Project Implementing Entity” means Kerala.

“Project Implementation Plan” means the Project Implementing Entity’s operations plan,
approved/adopted by the PWD on September 2012, setting forth the detailed policies,
rules procedures and protocols necessary for carrying out the Project in accordance with
this Agreement, as such plan may be amended from time to time with the prior
concurrence of the Bank.

“PSC” means the Project Implementing Entity’s committee established under the First
Kerala State Transport Project (Loan 4653-IN) and referred to in Section I.A.1(a) of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement.

“PWD” means the Public Works Department of the Project Implementing Entity or any
successor thereto.

“Resettlement Action Plan” and the acronym “RAP” mean the Project Implementing

Entity’s resettlement action plan adopted/approved on December 20, 2012, identifying
Displaced Persons on account of implementation of Project activities in all selected links

-15-
30.

31.

32.

33.

34.

of State Highways, and setting forth the term and conditions for providing them with
resettlement assistance and/or compensation, as well as providing for the screening
procedures to be applied in the identification, assessment and mitigation of Project
related potential social impacts, including the protocols for consultation, the processing
of complaints and grievance redressal, monitoring and reporting requirements, and the
Displaced Persons’ entitlement plans; as such plans may be revised, updated or
supplemented, from time to time, with the prior concurrence of the Bank.

“RSA” means the Kerala Project Implementing Entity’s Road Safety Authority,
established pursuant to Kerala Road Safety Act (2007).

“Safeguard Documents” means, collectively, the EIAs, the EMPs, the EMF and the RAP.

“State Highways” means, collectively, the state road corridors connecting Kerala’s
municipalities/towns/villages of: (1) Chenganoor-Ettumannoor-Muvattupuzha —Links 4 &
5; (ii) Kasargod-Kanjangad —Link 69; (iil) Pilathara-Pappinesserry —Link 68; (iv)
Thalasery-Valavupara —Link 74; (v) Punnaloor-Ponkunnam —Link 84.1; (vi) Ponkunnam-
Thodupuzha —Link84.2; and (vil) Perimbilavu-Pattambi-Perinthalmanna —Links 41 & 47.

“Vulnerable Road Users” means pedestrians, bicyclists and motorcyclist.

“Workshops & Training” means the reasonable cost of trainings, seminars, workshops,
conferences and study tours, conducted in the territory of the Borrower and/or overseas,
including: (i) the fees of training institutions and courses; (ii) domestic and international
travel costs, lodging costs, and subsistence/per diem allowances both for trainers and
trainees; (iii) the rental of training facilities; and (iv) preparation, purchase or
reproduction of training materials.

-16-

 

 
