Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

   
     

OFFICIAL
BOCUMENTS

 

 

LOAN NUMBER 8245-ID

Loan Agreement

(Research and Innovation in Science and Technology Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION

AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated Apri 12 | , 2013

 
LOAN NUMBER 8245-ID

LOAN AGREEMENT

Agreement dated AP@IL 142. , 2013, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(“Bank”). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:

1.01.

1.02.

2.01.

2.02.

2.03.

2.04.

2.05.

2.06.

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an integral part
of this Agreement.

Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in thts Agreement have the
meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this Agreement.

ARTICLE II— LOAN

The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
this Agreement, the amount of ninety five million United States Dollars (US$95,000,000), as
such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance
with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”).

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of Schedule
2 to this Agreement. ,

The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shali be equal to one quarter of one percent (0.25%)
of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not later than 60 days after the
Effective Date. :

- The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to the

Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the
Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in accordance with
the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if
any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be
calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General Conditions.

The Payment Dates are April 1 and October 1 in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3
to this Agreement.

2 of 23

1 ROAR Er ty

Pam OEE RONEN NNN PENMAN EE Dn eST ma NED MDAC EMIT HN AT INGA AE aM APs MEARE pi UES SS A Ta NOTE EAT eet Qo LL ASN IE OEM IO TRIG EYES OOD BN, ReTONEEA CEMENT LOT IRE EE AIM Se eag aS cH nett tele

CM ORI Sree ge nanan esrg)
2.07.

- 3.01.

3.02.

4.01.

5.01.

(a)

(b)

LOAN NUMBER 8245-ID

The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the terms of
the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of the Loan
Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or
unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable
to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all or any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Reference Rate and the Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference
Rate and the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a
Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate
or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.

Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is accepted by the
Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in the General Conditions, and shall
be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article [V of the General Conditions and
of the Conversion Guidelines.

ARTICLE II — PROJECT

The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end, the Borrower
shall carry out the Project through RISTEK in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions.

Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as the
Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried
out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE [V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement.

ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

The Borrower’s Representative is its minister at the time responsible for finance.

3 of 23
5.02.

5.03.

LOAN NUMBER 8245-ID

The Borrower’s Address 1s:

Directorate General of Debt Management
Ministry of Finance

Gedung Frans Seda

Jalan Dr. Wahidin Raya No. 1

Jakarta 10710

Indonesia

Cable: Facsimile:
FINMINISTRY 45799 62-21-381-2859
Jakarta

The Bank’s Address is:

_ International Bank for Reconstruction and Development

1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America

Cable address: Telex: Facsimile:

INTBAFRAD 248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 64145(MCI)

4 of 23
LOAN NUMBER 8245-ID

AGREED at Jakarta, Indonesia, as of the day and year first above written.

REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

By af ?

nag
Authorized Representative }

Name: Robert Pakpahan

Title: Expert Staff of Minister
of Finance on State Revenue
With Full Mandate as

DG of Debt Management

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By

Ans hen tr

Authorized Representative

  

Name: YOGANA PRASTA

Title: Acting Country DdikecToOR

5 of 23
LOAN NUMBER 8245-ID

SCHEDULE 1

Project Description

The objectives of the Project are to create an enabling policy environment for research and
development in science and technology, to improve the public research and development institutes’
performance, and to improve science, technology and innovation human resource capacity.

The Project consists of the following parts:

Part 1: Improving Innovation Policy Framework and Performance of Public Research Centers.

(a)

(b)

Improving Innovation Policy Framework.

(i) Supporting coordination and consensus-building by RISTEK on a national
innovation strategy and action plan.

(ii) Supporting a technical and policy study by RISTEK of relevant issues for the
development of the national innovation strategy.

(iii) Providing capacity building for RISTEK for design and implementation of the
national innovation policy.

(iv) Supporting the development by RISTEK of a national science and technology
information system.

(v) Supporting the review by RISTEK of, and proposed revisions to, the legal
framework for science, technology and mnovation.

Revitalization of Public Research Centers.

(i) Supporting RISTEK to undertake institutional assessments of selected LPNKs’
research centers and to disseminate the results of such assessments.

(ii) Supporting selected LPNKs to develop institutional development plans.

(iii) Piloting reforms by selected LPNKs to implement institutional development
plans developed under Part 1(b)(ii) of the Project.

Part 2: Strengthening Public Research Funding.

(a)

(b)
(c)

Supporting RISTEK to undertake a feasibility study for, and design of, a competitive
national research funding system.

Strengthening RISTEK’s existing institutional research funding program.

Supporting RISTEK to establish industrial and global research linkages for science and
technology researchers. -
ay
\.
/ ™

6 of 23

—

A
LOAN NUMBER 8245-ID

(d) Supporting RISTEK to improve monitoring and evaluation of publicly-funded research.

(e) Supporting RISTEK to improve the effectiveness of science and technology planning
formulation and budgeting system.

Part 3: Developing Science and Technology Human Resources Capacity.
Supporting implementation by RISTEK of a competitive:
(a) Fellowship Program; and
(b) Non-degree Professional Course and Training Program through:
(i) competitive selection of candidates;

(ii) provision of pre-departure programs, including language training to selected
candidates for Scholarship Recipients under Part 3(a); and

(iii) | provision of Scholarships for Ph.D Degree studies and Masters Degree studies
under Part 3(a) and Non-degree Professional Course and Traiming Program.

Part 4: Project Management.
(a) Supporting the operation of the Steering Committee, Technical Committee and Project
Management Office in the functions of: Project coordination, Project monitoring and evaluation,

procurement and financial management and other fiduciary aspects of Project implementation;
and Project advisory activities.

(b) Providing a re-entry program for returning Scholarship Recipients under Part 3(a).

7 of 23
A

é

LOAN NUMBER 8245-ID

SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Section I. Institutional and Implementation Arrangements

A.

Institutional Arrangements

The Borrower, through RISTEK, shall maintain until the completion of the Project, a Steering
Committee, with mandate, composition and terms of reference agreed between the Borrower and
the Bank, which shall include representatives of RISTEK and BAPPENAS to provide guidance
and oversight to the Project.

The Borrower, through RISTEK, shall maintain until the completion of the Project, a Technical
Committee, with mandate, composition and terms of reference agreed between the Borrower and
the Bank, which shall include representatives of RISTEK and BAPPENAS to provide technical
advice and support to the Steering Committee and Project Management Office in the matters
pertaining to the specific Project implementation issues.

The Borrower, through RISTEK, shall maintain until the completion of the Project, a Project
Management Office, with mandate, composition and terms of reference agreed between the
Borrower and the Bank, staffed by qualified representatives of RISTEK, Education and Training
Bureau at LPNKs, and Human Resources Bureau at LPNKs, to be responsible for overall project
implementation.

The Borrower, through RISTEK, shall maintain until completion of the Project a PMO
Secretariat, with mandate, composition and terms of reference agreed between the Borrower and
the Bank, to be responsible for the budget planning and fiduciary aspects of the Project and day-
to-day Project coordination.

The Borrower, through RISTEK, shall ensure that each of the Steering Committee, the Technical
Committee, the Project Management Office and the PMO Secretariat is provided at all times with
adequate funds and other resources and staffed by qualified and experienced personnel in
adequate numbers as shall be necessary to accomplish its objectives.

Implementation Arrangements
The Borrower, through RISTEK, shall:

(a) ensure that the Project is implemented in accordance with the Project Operations Manual,
acceptable to the Bank and RISTEK, which shall include: (i) implementation
arrangements set forth in Section I of this Schedule 2 and detailed Project phasing,
decision making and reporting arrangements fully consistent with Section I of this
Schedule 2; (ii) the procurement procedures set forth in Section III of this Schedule,
including the standard bidding documents to be used for each procurement method; (iii)
reporting requirements, financial management procedures and audit procedures as set
forth in Section Ht of this Schedule 2, including strengthened payment verification
procedures for the Fellowship Program, the Non-degree Professional Course and
Training Program, training, workshop and incremental operating costs and detailed
documentation of financial management procedures; (iv) the Eligibility and Selection

8 of 23

Hie RENAE
LOAN NUMBER 8245-ID

Criteria and implementation arrangements for all Scholarships provided for by the
Fellowship Program and the Non-degree Professional Course and Training Program
under Part 3 of the Project; (v) the Better Governance Action Plan; and (vi) the Project
Performance Indicators;

(b) not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive any provisions of the Project Operations
Manual, except with prior written agreement of RISTEK and the Bank;

(c) ensure that the Project Operations Manual is made available, at all times, until
completion of the Project, to the Bank, to the PMO, to each LPNK and to each person,
company or institution which is responsible for any aspect of Project implementation or
which receives Loan proceeds; and

(d) ensure that the Eligibility and Selection Criteria for all Scholarships provided for by the
Fellowship Program and the Non-degree Professional Course and Training Program
under Part 3 of the Project are made publicly available, in a manner satisfactory to the
Bank, at RISTEK to any interested applicant.

(e) In the event of any conflict between the provisions of the Project Operations Manual and
those of this Agreement, the latter shall prevail.

The Borrower, through RISTEK, shall ensure that: (a) for the first year of Project
implementation, RISTEX shall furnish to the Bank for approval the annual work plan and budget
for the Project within one (1) month after the Effective Date; (b) for each subsequent year of
Project implementation, RISTEK furnish to the Bank for approval as soon as available, but in any
case not later than October 31 of each year, the annual work plan and budget for the Project for
each subsequent year of Project implementation in accordance with the Project Operations
Manual, including the Scholarship plan described in paragraph 2 of Section LC of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement; and (c) ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with each such
approved annual work plan and budget.

The Borrower, through RISTEK, shall ensure that the proceeds of the Loan are used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project and are not used to finance any research grant or any other
research funding made by RISTEK or any other agency of the Borrower to any individual
researchers or institutions, whether a person, company or institution.

The Borrower shall ensure that the terms of reference for any consultancies related to studies,
technical assistance and/or capacity building under this Agreement shall be satisfactory to the
Bank following its review thereof.

In carrying out the Project, the Borrower, through RISTEK, shall introduce, where applicable,
international environmental health and safety guidelines and best practices in managing research
projects, satisfactory to the Bank.

The Borrower, through RISTEK, shall apply clear and transparent selection criteria, consistent
with the requirements of the Project Operations Manual, for selection of participants in study
tours, short courses, trainings and workshops.

9 of 23
LOAN NUMBER 8245-ID

In carrying out Part 1(b) of the Project, the Borrower, through RISTEK, shall ensure that: (a) an
annual assessment of LPNK performance, based on targets set in each LPNK institutional
development plan, is carried out by a panel, comprised of experts acceptable to RISTEK and a
copy of each such assessment shall be furnished to the Bank for a non-objection no later than one
(1) month following its completion; and (b) pilots under Part 1(b){iii) are selected, implemented
and subject to independent institutional assessment in accordance with the Project Operations
Manual.

The Borrower shall ensure that RISTEK shall engage within ninety (90) days following the
Effective Date, technical advisory support for the carrying out of the Project, on terms of
reference acceptable to RISTEK and the Bank and in accordance with the Project implementation
schedule set out in the Project Operations Manual, including: (a) technical advisors for Part 1 and
Part 2 of the Project; (b) a consultant to assist in the management of Scholarships for Part 3 of the
Project; and (c) a procurement consultant and a financial management consultant for all Parts of
the Project.

The Borrower, through RISTEK, shall ensure that the RISTEK Inspectorate shall include Project
activities in its internal audits.

Scholarships

The Borrower, through RISTEK, shall review all applications for Scholarships under each of the
Fellowship Program and the Non-degree Professional Course and Training Program, and
thereafter monitor and evaluate all Scholarships awarded under such programs, in accordance
with the provisions of the Project Operations Manual.

The Borrower, through RISTEK, shall ensure that: (a) for the first year of Project
implementation, the training plan and budget covering the Scholarships shalt be as set out in the
Project Operations Manual; and (b) for each subsequent year of Project implementation, RISTEK
shall prepare an annual training plan and budget covering Scholarships, submit such plan to the
Bank for no objection by October 31 in the year preceding the year of such plan, and thereafter
implement such plan.

No proposed Recipient shall be eligible for a Scholarship unless, on the basis of a review
conducted by a panel duly constituted in accordance with the Project Operations Manual, the
proposed Recipient is deemed to satisfy the Eligibility and Selection Criteria set out in the Project
Operations Manual, which shall include the criteria set out below.

(a) The proposed Recipient: (i) is a member in good standing of the Borrower’s civil service;
(ti) meets the requirements for technical/professional expertise and years of experience
set out in the Project Operations Manual; (iti) has an adequate academic record (such as
grade point average); (iv) has performed satisfactorily in qualification tests/interviews as
set out in the Project Operations Manual; (v) has a role in RISTEK and the LPNK
sponsoring such Recipient that had been decided by the selection panel to be aligned with
the priorities of RISTEK and such LPNK; and (vi) has performed satisfactorily in Pre-
Departure Training (for the Fellowship Program), as required by the Project Operations
Manual.

10 of 23
LOAN NUMBER 8245-ID

(b) The proposed Scholarship Activity to be undertaken by the Recipient: (i) is for a Masters
Degree or Ph.D for the Fellowship Program; or (ii) is for (A) a tailor-made or existing
course or immersion/training program run by a Training Provider domestically or
overseas; or (B) a class offered domestically by a visiting researcher or scholar.

(c) The proposed Learning Institution to be attended by the Recipient or Training Provider to
provide the Scholarship Activity meets the quality assurance standards set out in the
Project Operations Manual.

The Borrower, through RISTEK, shall ensure that each Scholarship shall be disbursed in
accordance with the requirements of the Project Operations Manual, which shall, except as may
be otherwise agreed in writing between the Borrower and the Bank, include the requirements set

out below.
(a) Tuition Costs Paid Directly to Learning Institutions or Training Providers
(i) RISTEK shall make payment of all Tuition Costs for each Scholarship directly to
the Learning Institution or Training Provider identified for the respective

Scholarship Activity. |

(ii) RISTEK shall ensure that each such payment of Tuition Costs shall be made to
the Learning Institution or Training Provider pursuant to a written agreement
under terms and conditions described in the Project Operations Manual, which
shall include the following:

(A) the obligation of the Learning Institution or Training Provider to: (1)
furnish to RISTEK records reflecting the application of the transferred
amount to the Tuition Costs for the Scholarship Activity of the specified
Recipient; and (2) to use the proceeds of the Tuition Costs in accordance
with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to
recipients of loan proceeds other than the Borrower; and

(B) the right of RISTEK to: (1) obtain all information as it, or the Bank, shall
reasonably request regarding the tuition payment; and (2) obtain a refund
of all or any part of the amount of the Tuition Costs payment in the event
that such payment is used by the Learning Institution or Training
Provider other than for the purpose of the tuition of the specified
Recipient.

(iii) | RISTEK shall not make any payment of Tuition Costs to a Learning Institution

or Training Provider which has not entered into a written agreement with
RISTEK meeting the requirements set out in sub-paragraph (1i) of this paragraph
4(a).

(b) Pre-Departure Training Paid Directly to Pre-Departure Training Providers

(i)

RISTEK shall make payment directly to each Pre-Departure Training Provider
for all Pre-Departure Training Costs related to each Fellowship Program
Scholarship Activity for which Pre-Departure Training is required in accordance
with the requirements of the Project Operations Manual.

11 of 23
(c)

(it)

(iit)

LOAN NUMBER 8245-ID

RISTEK shall ensure that each such payment of Pre-Departure Training Costs
shall be made to the Pre-Departure Training Provider pursuant to a written
agreement under terms and conditions described in the Project Operations
Manual, which shall include the following:

(A) the obligation of the Pre-Departure Training Provider to: (1) furnish to
RISTEK records reflecting the application of the transferred amount to
Pre-Departure Training required for the Scholarship Activity of the
specified Recipient; and (2) to use the proceeds of the Pre-Departure
Training Costs in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption
Guidelines applicable to recipients of loan proceeds other than the
Borrower; and

(B) the right of RISTEK to: (1) obtain all information as it, or the.Bank, shall
reasonably request regarding the tuition payment; and (2) obtain a refund
of all or any part of the amount of the Pre-Departure Training payment in
the event that such payment is used by the Pre-Departure Training
Provider other than for the purpose of providing pre-departure training to
the specified Recipient.

RISTEK shall not make any payment of Pre-Departure Training Costs to a Pre-
Departure Training Provider who has not entered into a written agreement with
RISTEK meeting the requirements set out in sub-paragraph (it) of this paragraph
4(b).

Non-Tuition Costs Paid Directly to Recipients:

(i)

(ii)

RISTEK shall make payment to each Recipient for the Non-Tuition Costs for the
Scholarship on a grant basis. Only those Recipients undertaking: (A) Fellowship
Program Scholarship Activities conducted overseas, or (B) Non-Degree
Profession Course and Training Program Scholarship Activities conducted
overseas or in a city that is not the home of the Recipient on record with RISTEK.
or the LPNK shall qualify for Non-Tuition Costs.

RISTEK shall ensure that each such payment of Non-Tuition costs shall be made
to the Recipient pursuant to a written agreement to be entered into between such
Recipient. and RISTEK under terms and conditions described in the Project
Operations Manual, which shall include the following:

{A) a description of the Scholarship Activity, Tuition Costs, and Non-Tuition
Costs and the provision of the Scholarship;

(B) the obligation of the Recipient to use the Scholarship solely for the
purposes of the Scholarship Activity and to carry out and successfully
complete the Scholarship Activity: (1) with due diligence and efficiency;
and (2) in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption
Guidelines applicable to recipients of loan proceeds other than the
Borrower, and the Project Operations Manual;

12 of 23
LOAN NUMBER 8245-ID

(C) the obligation of the Scholar to furnish to the Borrower academic
records reflecting the carrying out of the Scholarship Activity upon
completion of each academic term and completion of the Scholarship
Activity and all such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
requests; and

(D) the right of RISTEK, on behalf of the Borrower, to suspend or terminate
the right of the Recipient to use the proceeds of the Scholarship, or
obtain a refund of all or any part of the amount of the Scholarship then
withdrawn, as the case may be, upon failure by the Recipient to perform
any of the Recipient’s obligations under the Scholarship Agreement.

(iii) RISTEK shall not make any payment of Non-Tuition Costs to a Recipient who
has not entered into a written agreement with RISTEK meeting the requirements
set out in sub-paragraph (ii) of this paragraph 4(c).

The Borrower, through RISTEK, shall establish prior to the commencement of the first round of
Scholarship applications, and shall maintain and operate until completion of Part 3 of the Project,
a complaints handling system, meeting the requirements set out in the Project Operations Manual
and the Better Governance Action Plan, to address concerns of Scholarship applicants and other
stakeholders related to Part 3 of the Project in a fair and transparent manner.

The Borrower, through RISTEK, shall ensure that all Recipients of Scholarships shall participate
in a re-entry program designed and implemented in accordance with the Project Operations
Manual. The implementation of the re-entry program shall be included in the project reports
prepared by the Borrower, through RISTEK, in accordance with Section I-A of this Schedule 2.

Anti-Corruption

The Borrower, through RISTEK, shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with
the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines and the Better Governance Action Plan.

Section II. Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

A.

‘Project Reports

The Borrower, through RISTEK, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and
prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators acceptable to the Bank. Each Project Report shall
cover the period of one quarter, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45)
days after the end of the period covered by such report.

Mid-Term Review
The Borrower, through RISTEK shall:
(a) carry out jointly with the Bank, no later than December 31, 2016 or such other date as

may be agreed in writing by the Borrower and the Bank, a midterm review to assess the
status of Project implementation, as measured against the performance indicators referred

13 of 23
LOAN NUMBER 8245-ID

to in Section Il.A of this Schedule 2. Such review shall include an assessment of the
following: (i) overall progress in Project implementation; (ii) results of monitoring and
evaluation activities; (iii) progress on implementation of annual work plans and budgets;
(iv) progress on procurement and disbursement; (v) implementation arrangements; and
(vi) the need to make any adjustments to the Project and reallocate funds to improve
performance;

(b) prepare and furnish to the Bank, at least three (3) months before such review, a report, in
scope and detail satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank, needed to undertake the
review, integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed
pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section on the progress achieved in the carrying out of
the Project during the period preceding the date of the said report and setting out the
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the
achievement of the objective thereof during the period following such date; and

(c) review, jointly with the Bank, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and
thereafter take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and
the achievement of the objective thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations
of such report and the Bank’s views on the matter.

Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits

The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions.

Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare and
furnish to the Bank, as part of the Project Report, not later than forty-five (45) days after the end
of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter,
in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.

The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the provisions of
Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the
period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such
period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.

Section Lil. Procurement

A.

General

Non-consulting Services. All non-consulting services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements
set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this
Section.

Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and with the provisions of this
Section.

14 of 23
LOAN NUMBER 8245-ID

Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular procurement
methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to the corresponding
method described in Sections II and III of the Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, [V and
V of the Consultant Guidelines, as the’case may be.

Particular Methods of Procurement of Non-consulting Services

International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below, non-
consulting services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of International

Competitive Bidding procedures.

Other Methods of Procurement of Non-consulting Services. The following methods, other
than International Competitive Bidding, may be used for procurement of non-consulting
services for those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) National Competitive
Bidding, subject to the additional provisions set out in the Annex to this Schedule; (b) Shopping;
and (c) Direct Contracting. |

Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services

 

Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality and Cost-
based Selection.

Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following methods, other than
Quality- and Cost-based Selection, may be used for procurement of consultants’ services for
those contracts which are specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) Selection based on Consultants’
Qualifications; (b) Single-source Selection of consulting firms; (c) Procedures set forth in
paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants;
and (d) Single-source procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants.

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s Prior
Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.

Section IV. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

A.

1.

General

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions of
Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the ‘World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for
Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the
table in paragraph 2 below.

15 of 23
LOAN NUMBER 8245-ID

2. The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each
Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each
Category.

    
  
 

  
    
    
 

   
  
   
  
   
  

Category Amount of the Loan Percentage of
Allocated Expenditures to be
(expressed in USD) ' Financed

(inclusive of Taxes)

        
   

 
 
 

(1) Consultants’ services, training and workshops* and
incremental operating costs* under Part 1 of the Project

   

4,000,000 7
4,000,000 100%

(3) Scholarships under Part 3 of the Project 80,000,000 100%

(4) Non-consultant services, consultants’ services, 7,000,000 100%

training and workshops* and incremental operating

costs* under Part 4 of the Project
* For the purposes of this Table: (a) “training and workshops” means Project-related training, workshops
and study tours conducted in the territory of the Borrower or overseas, including purchase and publication
of materials, rental of facilities, course fees, and travel and subsistence of trainees; and (b) “incremental
operating costs” means reasonable costs of incremental expenditures under the Project, including Project
management, implementation, and monitoring and evaluation, utilities and supplies, bank charges,
communications, vehicle operation, maintenance, and insurance, office space rental, building and
equipment maintenance, public awareness-related publicity and media expenses, travel and subsistence,
and salaries of contractual and temporary staff, but excluding salaries, bonuses, fees, or honoraria of
members of the Borrower’s civil service; in each case in accordance with an approved annual work plan
and budget specified in paragraph 2 of Section 1.B of this Schedule 2.

(2) Consultants’ services, training and workshops* and
incremental operating costs* under Part 2 of the Project

       
  
 

   

   

B. Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. | Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made:

(a) from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end Fee;
or

_(b) for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.

2. The Closing Date is December 31, 2020.

16 of 23

tirana ses pace Pop tee an itt ean REE Ry Lo atgabggmny eR RIED eRe Pa Ae MEMES Mae ME te os ata Mota OME e me meme Ae gE TAR I nn peal fe RE ce NMS HR IE TR ERE HEE See ASTIN ESE NEESER octal gt at
LOAN NUMBER 8245-ID

ANNEX to SCHEDULE 2

National Competitive Bidding: Modifications to Procedures

The procedures applicable to the procurement of goods, works, and non-consulting services under
contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding shall be those of the Pelelangan Umum
(Public Tendering) and Pemilihan Langsung / Pelelangan Sederhana (Simplified Tendering) methods as
set forth in the Borrower’s Presidential Regulation No. 54/2010, with the modifications set out below in
order to ensure economy, efficiency, transparency, and broad consistency with the provisions of Section I
of the Procurement Guidelines, pursuant to paragraph 3.3 of said Guidelines. The Pemilihan Langsung /
Pelelangan Sederhana method shall apply to such procurement up to the financial thresholds specified in
said Regulation. In the event of a conflict between the Borrower’s procedures and these modifications,
the latter shall govern.

1.

Procuring entities shall use the appropriate standard bidding documents acceptable to the
Borrower and the Bank. The provisions of Section 1.16 (Fraud and Corruption) of the
Procurement Guidelines shall apply, and each bidding document and contract financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall include provisions on matters pertaining to fraud and corruption as
defined in paragraph 1.16(a) of said Guidelines and the contract provisions set out in paragraph
1.16(e) of said Guidelines.

Foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding. If a registration process is required, a
foreign firm determined to be the lowest evaluated responsive bidder shall be given reasonable
time for registration. Foreign bidders shall not be required to form a joint venture or sub-contract
part of the supply of goods, non-consulting services, and works as a condition for submitting bids
or the award of the contract. Bidding documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to
all internationa) bidders who are willing to pay the required fee.

No preference of any kind shall be given to any bidders.

Under the Pelelangan Umum method, bidders shall be allowed at least twenty-one (21) days from
the date of the invitation to bid or the date of availability of bidding documents, whichever is
later, to prepare and submit bids; this period shall be ten (10) days under the Pemilihan Langsung
/ Pelelangan Sederhana method.

Bids invited under the Pelelangan Umum method shall be submitted in one (1) envelope and
evaluated using post-qualification.

No bidder shall be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with the owner’s estimate and
budget ceiling without the Bank’s prior written concurrence.

Bid security, at the bidder’s option, shall be in the form of a letter of credit or guarantee from a
reputable bank or other reputable financial institution and shall without exception follow the form
provided for this purpose in the bidding documents.

All bids shall not be rejected and new bids solicited without the Bank’s prior written concurrence.
Government-owned enterprises in Indonesia shall be eligible to participate in bidding only if they

can establish that they are legally and financially autonomous, operate under commercial law, and
are not dependent agencies of the Borrower or sub-borrower.

17 of 23
LOAN NUMBER 8245-ID

SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule

1. The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage of the
total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date (“Installment Share”).
If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of the first Prmcipal Payment Date, the
principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal
Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable
amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this
Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.

(Expressed as a Percentage

2.34

April 1, 2025 | ~ 2.52

October 1, 2025 2.58
2.64
2.78

April 1, 2029
3.56

October 1, 2032

April 1, 2033
4.23
October 11,2036

18 of 23

 PeAap eT
LOAN NUMBER 8245-ID

If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date,
the principal: amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date
shall be determined as follows: |

(a) To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in
accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.

(b) Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on each
Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts determined
by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the
numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph |
of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share’) and the
denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original Installment Shares for
Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, such amounts repayable to be
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule,
to which a Currency Conversion applies.

(a) Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any Principal
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following
the date of withdrawal.

(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any time the

Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on or after the

' respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer
apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved Currency, the
amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any Principal Payment Date
occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such
amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines; the exchange rate component of the

Screen Rate.

If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions
of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as
to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.

19 of 23
10.

LOAN NUMBER 8245-ID

APPENDIX

Definitions

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and
Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”, dated October 15,
2006 and revised in January 2011. .

“Better Governance Action Plan” means the Borrower’s Better Governance Action Plan, setting
forth the actions to be taken by the Borrower and RISTEK, under the Project to promote good
governance and accountability and included as a stand-alone chapter in the Project Operations
Manual, as such plan may be amended from time to time with the prior written agreement
between the Borrower, through RISTEK, and the Bank.

“BAPPENAS” means Badan Perencanaan Pembangunan Nasional, the Borrower’s National
Development Planning Agency, or any successor thereto.

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers” dated January 2011.

“Eligibility and Selection Criteria” means the criteria, specified in the Project Operations Manual
and consistent with paragraph 3 of Section I.C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, pursuant to
which RISTEK shall award a Scholarship to a Recipient.

“Fellowship Program” means the program under which RISTEK shall provide Scholarships to
qualified Recipients for degree training programs under Part 3(a) of the Project and meeting the
requirements set out in the Project Operations Manual and Section I.C of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement. :

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for Loans”, dated March 12, 2012.

“Learning Institution” means each institution meeting the requirements set out in paragraph 3(c)
of Section I.C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and in the Project Operations Manual, qualified to
provide degree training under Part 3(a) of the Project, designated as a Learning Provider by
RISTEK, and having entered into a written agreement with RISTEK in accordance with
paragraph 4(a) of Section I.C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. “Learning Institutions” means
more than one Learning Institution.

“LPNK” means each of the non-ministerial state institute of the Borrower (Lembaga Pemerintah
Non Kementerian) participating in the Project, namely, each of: the Indonesian Institute of
Sciences (LIPID), the Agency for the Assessment and Application of Technology (BPPT), the
National Nuclear Energy Agency (BATAN), the National Institute of Aeronautics and Space
(LAPAN), the Geospatial Information Agency (BIG), the National Standardization Agency
(BSN) and the Nuclear Energy Regulatory Agency (BAPETEN), or any successor to each of the
foregoing. “LPNKs” means more than one LPNK.

20 of 23
Il.

12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

17.

18.

19.

20.

LOAN NUMBER 8245-ID

“Masters Degree” means a post-graduate academic degree conferred by a Learning Institution
upon those who have satisfactorily completed the prescribed study beyond a baccalaureate
degree.

“Non-degree Professional Course and Training Program” means the program under which
RISTEK shall provide Scholarships to qualified Recipients for non-degree professional courses
and training programs, which may include domestic or overseas tailor-made courses, off-the-shelf
courses, individualized immersion or mentor training, and classes taught by visiting scholars
and/or researchers, under Part 3(b) of the Project and meeting the requirements set out in the
Project Operations Manual and Section I.C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. “Non-degree
Professional Course and Training Programs” means more than one Non-degree Professional
Course and Training Program.

“Non-Tuition Costs” means all costs qualified to be supported by a Scholarship and paid directly

by RISTEK to the Recipient in accordance with paragraph 4(c) of Section LC of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and the Project Operations Manual, and in all cases excluding Tuition Costs and
Pre-Departure Training Costs.:

“Part” means a Part of the Project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement. “Parts” means more
than one Part of the Project.

“Ph.D” means doctor of philosophy, a post-graduate academic degree conferred by a Learning
Institution upon those who have satisfactorily completed the prescribed study for the highest or
terminal degree in the relevant discipline, following the prior receipt of a baccalaureate degree.

“PMO Secretariat” means the PMO Secretariat established by RISTEK pursuant to the Decree of
the State Minister of Research and Technology No. 05/M/Kp/I/2013 dated January 7, 2013, as
amended from time to time in a manner acceptable to the Bank and operating in accordance with
paragraph 4 of Section I.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Pre-Departure Training” means the training to be provided for Recipients of Scholarships for the
Fellowship Program under Part 3(a) of the Project, prior to such Recipients commencing their
Scholarship Activities in accordance with paragraph 3(a) of Section I.-C of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and the Project Operations Manual.

“Pre-Departure Training Costs” means all costs qualified to be supported by a Scholarship and
paid directly by RISTEK to a Pre-Departure Training Provider for the purposes of Pre-Departure
Training in accordance with paragraph 4(b) of Section 1.C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and
the Project Operations Manual.

“Pre-Departure Training Provider’ means each institution which has entered into a written
agreement with RISTEK meeting the requirements set out in paragraph 4(b) of Section LC of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and the Project Operations Manual, qualified to provide Pre-
Departure Training under Part 3(a) of the Project and designated as a Pre-Departure Training
Provider by RISTEK. ‘Pre-Departure Training Providers” mean more than one Pre-Departure
Training Provider.

“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-
consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers”

dated January 2011.

21 of 23
21.

22.

23.

24.

25.

26.

27,

28.

~ 29.

30.

LOAN NUMBER 8245-ID

“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, accepted by the
Bank on December 28, 2012 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and
paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in
accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.

“Project Management Office” or “PMO” means the Project management office established by
RISTEK. pursuant to the Decree of the State Minister of Research and Technology No.
05/M/Kp/I/2013 dated January 7, 2013, as amended from time to time in a manner acceptable to
the Bank and operating in accordance with paragraph 3 of Section 1A of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.

“Project Operations Manual” means the Project operations manual, acceptable to the Borrower
and the Bank, issued by RISTEK on January 15, 2013, and meeting the requirements set out in
paragraph 1 of Section LB of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and including all annexes and
supplements thereto, as such Project Operations Manual may be amended from time to time with
the prior written agreement of the Borrower, through RISTEK, and the Bank.

“Project Performance Indicators” means the indicators referred to in Section II.A of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, by which the Project will be monitored, as set out in a letter dated the date of this
Agreement, between the Borrower and the Bank. .

“Recipient” means each individual, being a member in good standing of the Borrower’s civil
service, to whom or for whose benefit a Scholarship is made or proposed to be made in
accordance with the Eligibility and Selection Criteria specified in Section I.C of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and in further detail in the Project Operations Manual. “Recipients” means more
than one Recipient.

“RISTEK” means the Borrower’s State Ministry of Research and Technology, or any successor
thereto.

“RISTEK Inspector General” means the Inspector General of RISTEK, or any successor thereto.

“Scholarship” means a grant made or to be made by RISTEK to a Recipient out of the proceeds
of the Loan to finance a Scholarship Activity in accordance with Section LC of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement. “Scholarships” means more than one Scholarship.

“Scholarship Activity” means a specific activity carried out in accordance with the Fellowship
Program under Part 3(a) or the Non-degree Technical Course and Training Program under Part
3(b) of the Project, financed or proposed to be financed through a Scholarship in accordance with
the Eligibility and Selection Criteria specified in Section I.C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and
in further detail in the Project Operations Manual. “Scholarship Activities” means more than one
Scholarship Activity.

“Steering Committee” means the steering committee established pursuant to the Decree of the
State Minister of Research and Technology No. 05/M/Kp/I/2013 dated January 7, 2013, as
amended from time to time in a manner acceptable to the Bank for the Project, operating in
accordance with paragraph 1 of Section I.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as such committee
may be re-constituted from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Borrower and the
Bank, or any successor entity thereto.

22 of 23
31.

32.

33.

LOAN NUMBER 8245-ID

“Technical Committee” means the technical committee established pursuant to the Decree of the
State Minister of Research and Technology No. 05/M/Kp/1/2013 dated January 7, 2013, as
amended from time to time in a manner acceptable to the Bank for the Project, operating in
accordance with paragraph 2 of Section I.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the such
committee may be reconstituted from time to time with the prior written agreement of the
Borrower and the Bank, or any successor entity thereto.

“Training Provider” means each institution meeting the requirements set out in paragraph 3(c) of
Section I.C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and in the Project Operations Manual, qualified to
provide one or more Non-Degree Professional Course and Training Programs under Part 3(b) of
the Project, designated as a Training Provider by RISTEK and having entered into a written
agreement with RISTEK in accordance with paragraph 4(b) of Section ILC of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement. “Training Providers” mean more than one Training Provider.

“Tuition Costs” means all costs qualified to be supported by a Scholarship and paid directly to a
Learning Institution or Training Provider, as applicable, to cover tuition or training and related
costs for a Recipient under a Fellowship Program or Non-Degree Professional Course and
Training Program in accordance with paragraph 4(a) of Section I'C of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and the Project Operations Manual.

23 of 23
