Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

ta

.
ant We, wean at a

DOCUMENTS

if, Clue

| OFFICIAL

i

 

 

 

LOAN NUMBER 8279-GE

Loan Agreement

(Second Competitiveness and Growth Development Policy Loan)
between
GEORGIA
and ‘

INTER} ATION. \L BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated Tuly \4 » 2013

 
LOAN NUMBER 8279-GE
LOAN AGREEMENT

Agreement dated Lut Y \9 , 2013, entered into between GEORGIA
(“Borrower”) and the INTERN/.TIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the
Program (as de‘ined in the Appundix to this Agreement). The Bank has decided to
provide this financing on the basi::, inter alia, of: (a) the actions which the Borrower has
already taken urider the "rogram ind which are described in Section | of Schedule I to
this Agreement; and (b) the Botrower’s maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic
policy framework. The Eiorrower ind the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE [ — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01. The General Conditions (as defined in ‘the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitu'e an integral part of this Agreement.

1.02. Unless the con‘ext reqiires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meat.ings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to ‘his Agre :ment.

ARTICLE Il — LOAN

2.01. The Bark agrees to |2nd t» the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this A.gree nent, the amount of thirty two million United States
dollars ($32,000,00(}), as such amount may be converted from time to time
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07
of this Agreemert (“ Joan’).

2.02. The Borrower may withd aw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program
in accordance with Sectio1 I! of Schedule | to this Agreement.

2.03. The Front-end Fe payab e by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%), of the Lc-an amount.

2.04. The interest payable by t1e Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Re‘erence F ate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon it Cor version of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loaa, the interest pay able by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shill te delermined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article [V of the Ceneri:l Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withcrawr Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continves for a deriod of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by
2.07.

2.08.

 

-2-

the Bcrrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.

The Payment Cates are .anuary 15 and July 15 in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

(a)

(b)

(c)

The Bc rrower n ay at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the 1zrms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a chang: of he Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amoun! of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Curren:y; 111) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any partion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding, fror: a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or eny portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding: frora1 a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Sp: ead, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loin withdiawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variab!e Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of |'mits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or zny portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding, by tie establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar wn the Veriable Rate or the Reference Rate.

Any ccnve’sion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is acce »ted by tie Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Arzicle [V of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.

Promptly follov'ing the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or
Interest! Rete Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the
premiun be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on
behalf of tne Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the anourts required to pay any premium payable in accordance
with Section 405 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount
allocated fiom t me to time for the purpose in the table in Section II of
Schedu'e | to ths Agreement.

Without limitation ipon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 of Section IT of the Appendix to this
Agreement anc relating to Cooperation and Consultation), the Borrower shall
3.01.

4.01.

4.02.

5.01.

-3-

promptly furnish to the Bink such information relating to the provisions of this
Article 1] as the Eiank may -from time to time, reasonably request.

ART CLE IH — PROGRAM

The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.
To this end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions:

(a) the Borrewe: and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of
either patty, exchinge views on the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy
‘ramewo'k aud tht progress achieved in carrying out the Program;

(b) prior to each suct exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the
I3ank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in
carrying out the |’rogram, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request; end

(c) ‘without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
Section, ‘he Borrc wer shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation
that woud have tie effect of materially reversing the objectives of the
Program or any <ction taken under the Program including any action
specified in Secticn | of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK

The Additional I:vert of Suspension consists of the following, namely that a
situation has ariien whica shall make it improbable that the Program, or a
significant part o! it, ‘vill te carried out.

The Additional Even: of / cceleration consists of the following, namely that, the
event specified iri Se:tion 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a
period of thirty (10) days ..fter notice of the event has been given by the Bank to
the Borrower.

ARTICLE V — E FFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

The Additional Cond tions of Effectiveness consist of the following:

(a) The Bans is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in
carrying out the Program and with the adequacy of the Borrower’s

macroeccnoniic pilicy framework.

(b) The Finencing Agreement has been executed and delivered and all
conditions pr2cede nt to its effectiveness or to the right of the Borrower to
5.02.

6.01.

6.02.

6.03.

-4-

make vithdrawals under it (other than the effectiveness of this
Agreement) hav: been fulfilled.

The Effectivencss Dead] ine is the date one hundred and twenty (120) days after
the dat2 of this Agrieme tt.

ARTIC LE VI-- REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

The Borrower’s Re orese itative is its Minister of Finance.

The Borrower’s Address is:

Ministry of Fina ice
16 Gor:sasali Str ret
Tbilisi 1 i++
Georgii.

Facsimile:

+99532-262422

The Bank’s Address is:

International Baik for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, } .W.
Washir gton, D.t>, 20433

United States of America
Cable <ddr2ss: Telex: Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391

Washirigto1, D.'?, 64145(MC]1)
AGREED at Tbilisi, Georgia. as o: the day and year first above written.

  
  

G ZORGIA

Authorized Representative
N ime: O ol C1

Title: ie ¥ t fy ACh

IX TERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

Authorized Representative

Nime: C eral '

Ti le: Re wera ire “AO
-6-

SCHEDULE 1

Prozrain Ac ions; Availability of Loan Proceeds

Section L Action’ under the Program

 

The actions taken by th Bc rrow 2r under the Program include the following:

].

The Borrower lias issuec : (a} Governmental Decrees No, 317 and 318 dated July
31, 2012, and No. 488 «lated December 28, 2012; (b) Orders of the Minister of
Econovny and ‘sustainat .e Development No. 1-1/1527 dated July 23, 2012: and
No. 1-1/1740 dated Sep:ember 10, 2012; and (c) Decree of the Director General
of the Georgian Natioral Agency for Standards and Metrology No. 2 dated
January 10, 21113, for the implementation of the law on Safety and Free
Moverient of Products.

The Borrower Jias stren;:thened the risks-based management of customs control
by introducing “he <.utom ated selectivity for transit traffic.

The Borrower’: Ministry of Energy has amended Order No. 77 on Electricity
(Capacity) Marxet Xules dated August 30, 2006 by virtue of Order No. 99 dated
May 30, 2013 to prioritize new hydropower projects and renewable power
production access to tie grid with remaining congested transfer capacity
allocated via transparent auctions.

The Borrower’: Ministry of Education and Science has: (a) approved a new
national curriculum: for grades | through XII; and (b) implemented the new
natione| curriculum. for grades VIL through XII including the distribution of
supporiing material: to s :hools.

The Borrower’s Minister of Education and Science has amended Order No. 576
dated October 21, 2005 and issued Order No. 04/N dated January 29, 2013
approving new Teache’ Salary Scale and Instructions recognizing teacher
experience and »erf rma ice.

The Bcrrower’s Minister of Finance has issued Order No. 97 dated April 8, 2013
adoptir g the rules for the preparation of financial statements by the State Budget
Organizations ising th: modified cash-basis methods in accordance with
intemna-ional pu lic sectcr accounting standards (IPSAS).

The Eorrower's Minisry of Finance has harmonized electronic budget
management sy:iter (E-t udget) with the electronic treasury system (E-treasury).

The Berrower fas issuec Governmental Decree No. 36 dated February 21, 2013
introducing universil hez|th coverage for the primary and emergency care.
9.

A.

7.

The Borrower has <dopt:d three (3) pilot modules in the district of Tbilisi,
Rustavi and Mtsk het: regions for social information management systems on: (a)
state per sion; (b) state cor pensation; and (c) state social packages.

Section Il. Availability of Lc an Proceeds

General. The Borrcwer nay withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance
with the provisicns of thi; Section and such additional instructions as the Bank
may specify by notic? to tre Borrower.

Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan (except for amounts required to pay the
Front-end Fee) s allocaed in a single withdrawal tranche, from which the
Borrower may niake wit! drawals of the Loan proceeds. The allocation of the
amounts of the Lan to th’s end is set out in the table below:

 

     
      
  

Amount of the Loan
Allocated
(expressed in Dollars)

31,920,000
80,000

Withdrawal Trineclie Ri lease Conditions. No withdrawal shall be made of the
Single ‘Withdrawal “rancre unless the Bank is satisfied: (a} with the Program
being carried ou. by the Hiorrower; and (b) with the adequacy of the Borrower’s
macroeconomic volicy fre mework.

.Mlocatio 1s

   

  
    
    

(1) Single ‘Witt drawal Tranche

(2) Front-e id Fee

  

(3) Amoun:. due pur uant to Section
2.07(c) of this A reement

  
  

TOTAL AM JUNT

 

Deposits of Loa. Ainour ts. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:

l. all withcirawals fom the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank
into an ¢cco int d2signated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank;
and

2. the Borrower shz!l ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the

Loan inco this acount, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the
Borrower’s oudg ‘t management system, in a manner acceptable to the
Bank.
-8-

E. Excluded Expencituris. The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the
Loan shall not be used :o finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines
at any time that en an ount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an
Excluded Expendi:ure, he Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank,
refund an amcunt equa! to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts
refunded to the: Baik up on such request shall be cancelled.

F. Closing Date. Th: Closing Date is March 31, 2014.
to

 

9.

SCHEDULE 2
A nortization Schedule

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentape of the total priicipal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date (“Iistallmer t Share”). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable sy the E orrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank b:’ multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repaye ble amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in piragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.

 

| NII et Serectaie RRR

  

   
   
   

  
 

Installment Share

Principal Paymen Date (Expressed as a Percentage)

    
  
 
 

On each January ISend Ii ly 15:

3eginninz July 15, 2023
through July 15, 2337

 

a AANA ete

On January 15,2138

If the proceeds of the Loan iave not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment |Date, the priicipa! amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Pay nent Dat: shall be determined as follows:

(a) To the extent that eny proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Prircipal Payment Date, the Borrower Shall repay the
Withdrawr Loan Bi lance as of such date in accordance with paragraph |
of this Schedule.

(b) Any amouit withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Priicipal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of act suct withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installm 2nt Share specified in the table in paragraph | of this
Schedule fur szid Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”)
and the denominatcr of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shires {or Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such umounts 1epayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any

 
-10-

amounts r2ferrd to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversicn apy lies.

(a) Amouats of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal 2ayient Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
princi al mou its payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn ani! outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal ?ayr ent Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.

(b) Notwithst indir g the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any tirie tte Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withd:awals mide after the adoption of such billing system.

Notwithstanding the povisions of paragraphs | and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion cf all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Priicipal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall oe Jeter nined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currercy of denoriinat on immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Etank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if tle Bank so determifies in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchan::e rate component of the Screen Rate.

If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this S shedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currenc:’, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amuunt

 
-|[]-

APPENDIX
Section I. Definitiuns
1. “Excluded I!xpenditire” means any expenditure:

(a) for gocds 0: services supplied under a contract which any national or
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the
Association vas financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the
Association 1as financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit,
or grant;

(b) for soods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3
(1986) the ITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the

Bor‘ower:
[Sub-group | Description of ltem
[_TAlcohotic beverages

 

     
   

 

Tobacco, un-manufactured,
tobacco refuse
Tobacco, manufactured

(whether or not containing
tobacco substitutes

Radioactive and associated
materials

Pearls, precious and
semiprecious stones, unworked
or worked
Nuclear reactors, and parts
thereof; fuel elements
(cartridges), non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors

Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals (except
watches and watch cases) and
goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’
wares (including set gems

Gold, non-monetary (excluding
pold ores and concentrates

       
     

667

     
 
 

 
 
 
 

718

     
     
 
   
      
   

oe

      

 
 

 
 

-12-

3) for gcods inter.ded for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
consu'npt on;

(d) for enviranmet tally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of
which is proh bited under the laws of the Borrower or international
agreemen's to ‘which the Borrower is a party.

(e) on acount of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United
Natious Scuri y Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the
United Nations and

(f) with respect t» which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent,
collus ve or courcive practices were engaged in by representatives of the
Borro'ver or ot ier recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower
(or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action
Satisfactory to 11¢ Bank to address such practices when they occur.

“Finarcing Ajsreenent’ means the agreement between the Borrower and the
Association in support of the Program, of the same date as this Agreement; as
such agreement may b2 amended from time to time. “Financing Agreement”
incluces all appendices. schedules and agreements supplemental to the Financing
Agreement.

“General Conditicns” neans the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated March 12, 2012 with the
modifications :iet forth in Section II of this Appendix.

“Program” means the >rogram of actions, objectives and policies designed to
promote grow:h aid achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or
referred to in the lette' dated May 30, 2013 from the Borrower to the Bank
declaring the Bor‘owe ’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and
requesting ass:siance trom the Bank in support of the Program during its
execu ion.

“Singie Withdrawal Trinche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the
category entitl:d “singl> Withdrawal Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of
Section If of Schecule | to this Agreement.

Section I], Modificatiyns to the General Conditions

The modificat ons to the Gsnera Conditions are as follows:

 

The lest senterice of pa agraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
Withdrawal) is deleted i1 its entirety.
SERCO T RC AARNE TEE SALSA ORD POLLEN EROOPEROEERCUALEDS COREA

-13-

Sections 2.04 (Desigitatea Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted
in their entirety ard th: remaining Sections in Article I] are renumbered
accordingly.

Sections 5.01 (Pioject Ex :cution Generally). and 5.09 (Financial Management;
Financicl Statements; Au tits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining
Sections in Article V are r:numbered accordingly.

Paragraph (a) of S:ect on 5 05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above
and relating to Usz of Goo ts, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.

Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3
above) is modifie 1 to read as follows:

“Section :'.06, Plas; Documents: Records

(c) Tte Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders,
iavoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures
under the Loan until two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower
shall enatle the Ba 1k’s representatives to examine such records.”

Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3
above) is modifiec| to ‘ead .\s follows:

Section 5.:)7, "rog, am Monitoring and Evaluation
gs g

. (c) Th? Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and
furnish to the Ban’: not later than six months after the Closing Date, a
report of such scose and in such detail as the Bank shal reasonably
request, on th? execution of the Program, the performance by the Loan
Parties and the Bink of their respective obligations under the Legal
Agreements anid the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.

The following terins and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or
deleted as: follows, ard the: following new terms and definitions are added in
alphabetical order to the Ajpendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered
accordingly:

(a) The defini:ion of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as
follows:

“Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put
in supdort of the Program, other than to finance expenditures
ex:ludad pt rsuant to the Loan Agreement.”
(b)

(c)

~ |4-

The terra “F nancial Statements” and its definition are deleted in their
entirety.

The terri “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is
modified! to 12ad as follows (and all references to “Project” throughout
thes: General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”):

‘““Prozram’ means the program referred to in the Loan
Agre:-ment in support of which the Loan is made.”
