 

Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized *

eee ~pemnmepmnemianiaiensens,”

OFFICIAL |
DOCUMENTS ,

*

= been eee’ Lee

'

= le

 

=. ae, =:

 

 

LOAN NUMBER 8275-TR

~ Loan Agreement

(Third Access (o Finance for Small and Medium Enterprises Project)
between

TURKIYE CU VIHURIYETI ZIRAAT BANKASI A.S.
and

: ‘INTERNA’ "IONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT :

Dated ATUgust 22,2013

 

 
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated Act (guS+ 2.2. , 2013, between TURKIYE

CUMHURIYETI ZIRAAT BANKASI A.$. “Borrower” or “Ziraat Bank) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(“Bank”). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: |

1.01.

1.02.

2.01.

2.02.

2.03.

2.04,

2.05.

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement,

Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.

ARTICLE II — LOAN

The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of three hundred million Dollars
($300,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the Project described in Schedule 1 to

this Agreement (“Project”).

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee
not later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date.

The’ interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. _ Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by
the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(e) of the
General Conditions.

The Payment Dates are April ist and October Ist in each year.

woos
2.06.

2.07.

3,01.

3.02.

4.01.

The principal ariount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortizat.on schedul: set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

(a) The Borrower m:y at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of tte Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; ard (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all
or any yortion f the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding frorr a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any porticn of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
cutstand.ng fron: a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Sp:ead to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spr2ad, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loat. withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Sp-ead to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread.

(b) Any cor version requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepled by tie Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined
in the General Conditions, and shal! be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Aiticle IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
(Suidelities.

ARTICLE If — PROJECT

The Borrower ceclares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the Gerera Conditions.

Without limitation upo.: the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Eorrower, the Guarantor and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the

Bortower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisicns of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and the Operations Manual.

ARTICLE IV -- EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:

(a) the Borrower shall have adopted the Operations Manual satisfactory to
the Banik; |

(b): the Borrower hall have furnished evidence acceptable to the Bank that

adequzte progiess has been made for capacity strengthening of the PIU;
_ and

-2-
4.02.

5.01,

5.02:

5.03.

(c) one Subsidiary Loan Agreement, Satisfactory to the Bank, shall have
been entered into between the Borrower and a PFI in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 5(b) of Section LA of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and twenty (120) days after
the date of this Agreement.

ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

The Borrower’s Representative is the Director General of the Borrower.

é

The Borrower’s Address is:

Turkiye Cumhuriyeti Ziraat Bankasi A.S
Doganbey Mahallesi

Ataturk Bulvari No. 8

Altindag, Ankara,

Turkey

Facsimile:

(90-312) 310-14-71

The Bank’s Address is:

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America

Cable address: Telex: Facsimile:

INTBAFRAD 248423(MCD or 1-202-477-6391

Washington, D.C. 64145(MCI)

~3-
AGREED at_ Am\vara. _ lu The _ as of the day and year first above written.

TURKIYE CUMHURTYETI ZIRAAT
BANKASIA.S.

» £242

Authorized/Representative
A A IKL
Name: +- “7 Z/ASE AGL! C,
c
eh ft?

   

Title:

         

Authorized Representative

Name: ( wn A Nae
ene
Title: Crssc)_oN aha AVS

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

“By
_ Authorized Representative

Name: [tor tv, Kou ter
Title: Com Z Divee tov

4.
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to improve access to medium and long-term
finance for small and medium enterprises in the Republic of Turkey through lease
financing.
The Project consists of the following parts:
The establishment and operation of a credit facility within Ziraat Bank for the

provision of financing, through Subsidiary Loans, to PFIs for onlending by the PFIs,
through Sub-loans to SMEs to carry out Sub-projects.
SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Section I, |mplem ent ation. Arrangements

 

Institutional and Cithe: Arrangements

Except as the Bank stall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the
following to the satisfaction of the Bank: maintain the PIU until the completion
of the Project arid ensur > that the PIU functions at all times in a manner and with
staffing and budgetary r2sources necessary and appropriate for implementation of
the Project.

The Borrower shill riaintain the Operations Manua! in form and content
satisfactory to the Benk, shall duly perform all its obligations under the
Operations Manuzl, and shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Operations Mariual without obtaining the prior approval of the Bank.

The Borrower shall, thoughout the implementation of the Project, comply with
the applicable prucenti:! regulations of the Guarantor.

The Bcrrower sha ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. |

For the purpos:s of car -ying out the Project, the Borrower shall:

(a) , select Banks a id Leasing Companies as PFIs pursuant to criteria set forth
"in paragraph 1 of Section 1B of this Schedule and the Operations
Manu:il;

(by (i) on-lend to the PFIs the equivalent of the proceeds of the Loan
. alloca ed from time to time to Category (1) set forth in Section
T'/.A 9f this Schedule under Subsidiary Loan Agreements to be
entered into between the Borrower and each such PFI, and which
Subsiliary Loan Agreements shall have been approved by the
Bank and shall include without limitation, the terms and
condi ions set forth in Section I.B of this Schedule, and provided
that te PFI continues to satisfy the eligibility criteria set out in
parag -aph 1 in Section LB. of this Schedule;

(ii) r2-ler d to the same (or on-lend to other) PFs, with due attention
t> th: provisions of sub-paragraph (g) of this paragraph 5, an
emount equal to the amount which shall have been on-lent to the
PFIs .n the first instance;

-6-
(d)

(e)

(f)

un

(ili) take or cause to be taken all action necessary or appropriate on
its part to enable the PFIs to perform in accordance with the
provisions of their respective Subsidiary Loan Agreements all
the obligations of the PFIs therein set forth, and not take or
permit to be taken any action that would prevent or interfere with
such performance; and

(iv) exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements in such
manner as to protect the interests of the Bank and the Guarantor
and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the
Bank shall otherwise give its prior approval, not assign, amend,
abrogate or waive any such agreement or any provision thereof:

ensure that: (i) the amount of each Sub-loan to any single SME shall not
exceed the equivalent of $3,500,000; and (ii) the aggregate amount of
outstanding Sub-loans to any single SME from all PFs shall not exceed
the equivalent of $5,000,000;

monitor the overall execution of the Project and the carrying out by the
PFIs of their obligations under their respective Subsidiary Loan
Agreements in accordance with policies and procedures satisfactory to
the Bank,

ensure that the Borrower and/or PFIs use their own funds (that is, other
than Loan proceeds) to finance Sub-projects, which shall be appraised,
selected and supervised in accordance with the Operations Manual, by at

least twenty-five percent (25 %) of the Loan;

establish a separate account, in accordance with policies and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank, in which it shall deposit and record the
repayments by the PFIs of their respective Subsidiary Loans (exclusive

, Of repayments by the PFIs of co-financed amounts), and accumulate the

(g)

amounts required for repayment of the principal and interest due to the
Bank pursuant to Sections 2.04 and 2.06 of this Agreement; and out of
the balance of which such account (amounts of repayments collected,
less the amount any Borrower’s payment obligations to the Bank under
this Agreement);

monitor the total amount of such repayments of Subsidiary Loans
(exclusive of repayments by the PFIs of co-financed amounts), in order
to continue extending the credit facility established under the Project by
promptly re-lending to the same PFls (or on-lending to other PFIs)
thereafter, for one additional lending cycle, thereby assuring that the
credit facility is utilized by such on-lending and re-lending for a total of

two cycles (at least), provided, however, that such re-lending activity

-7-
B.

(h)

shall be due onl, upon the Borrower’s having first collected an aggregate
amount of repeyments from all or any such Subsidiary Loans to the
threshold level of $50:000,000 equivalent, whereupon, having obtained
manifest inforn ation confirming the first occurrence of such threshold
amount, the Bo ‘rower shall, within a period of one (1) year after, utilize
by such re-lend ng (or on-lending) that same amount in ful! (to the extent
not required to meet the Borrower’s payment obligations to the Bank
under thiis \gre sent) to finance new on-lending through PFls under the
terms arid conditions set forth in Section LB of this Schedule; and

ensure that at least fifteen percent (15%) of the Loan shall be utilized for
Sub-prajects fir ancing investments located in the Priority Regions, or for
Sub-prajects financing working capital, the goods and services so
financed are us:-d in the Priority Regions.

Terms and Co:di-‘ions of On-lending to PFIs

The principal terms arid vonditions set forth in this Section LB shall apply for the
purposes of paragraph ‘(a) of S :ction LA of this Schedule.

B.l

l.

PFI Eligibility Criteria

For the purposus cf ca:rying out the Project, except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall select Banks and Leasing Companies as PFis in
accordance with the cr.teria and procedures set forth in the Operations Manual,
including that:

(a) , A Bank tay be selected as PFI only if it is duly established and

(b)

bd

operating in tte territory of the Guarantor and in respect of which the
Borrovrer shall have determined, and the Bank shall have agreed with the

determination, that the Bank:

(i) has total assets exceeding $1,000,000,000 equivalent on average
during the last two fiscal years of the Bank preceding the signing
of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and

(il) is in >ompliance with applicable banking regulations of the ~
Guarantor as confirmed in the semiannual financial reports
submited by the Bank’s management and duly certified by the
Bank’:; auditors at the end of each fiscal year of the Bank.

A Leasing: Coinpany may be selected as PFI only if it is duly established
and operating in the territory of the Guarantor, and in respect of which
the Borrower ‘hall have determined, and the Bank shall have agreed with
the determinat.on, that the Leasing Company:

-8-
B.2

B.3

(i) has total lease receivables exceeding $50,000,000 equivalent on
average and a new lease volume exceeding $50,000,000
equivalent on average, during the last two fiscal years of the
Leasing Company preceding the signing of the Subsidiary Loan -
Agreement;

(it) is in compliance with applicable leasing regulations of the
Guarantor as confirmed in the semiannual financial reports
submitted by the Leasing Company’s management and duly
certified by the Leasing Company’s auditors at the end of each
fiscal year of the Leasing Company; and

(iii) has been profitable for at least two (2) out of the last three (3)
years of its operations. :

Terms

the principal amount of any PFI’s indebtedness under its respective Subsidiary
Loan Agreement shall be constituted by aggregating the amount of the principal
of all the Sub-loans made by the PFI for qualifying Sub-projects;

each Subsidiary Loan shall be charged, on the principal amount thereof
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, interest rates and other charges at a
level, at least, equal to the rate payable under Section 2.04 of this Agreement plus
the administrative costs of the Borrower and a credit risk margin. The Subsidiary
Loan shall have a minimum maturity period of five (5) years and will be subject
to a maximum $60 million equivalent (from the blended funds of the Bank and
Ziraat Bank co-financing).

The right of a PFI to use the proceeds of its respective Subsidiary Loan shall be:

(i):-* suspended upon failure of such PFI to perform any of its obligations
under its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement or to continue to satisfy
the eligibility criteria set forth in paragraph I(a) or 1(b) of Section LB.1

of this Schedule, as the case may be; and

(il) terminated if such right shall have been suspended pursuant to
subparagraph (i) hereof for a continuous period of sixty (60) days.

Conditions

Each Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall contain provisions pursuant to which the
PFI concerned undertakes to:
(a)

(b)

carry cut activities under the Project with due diligence and efficiency
and in accordance with the Operations Manual and sound technical,
financial, and managerial standards acceptable to the Bank, and in
accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines
applicable to the recipients of the Loan proceeds other than the
Borrower, and to maintain adequate records;

(i)

(ii)

(iii)

(iv)

(v)

(vi)

make, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, Sub-loans to
SIMEs on the terms and conditions set forth in the Operations
Manu: l, including, without limitation, the terms and conditions
set for +h in Section IC of this Schedule;

erisure that: (A) the amount of each Sub-loan to any single SME
stall 10t exceed the equivalent of $3,500,000; and (B) the
asigreg ate amount of outstanding Sub-loans to any single SME
from ¢1l PFIs shal! not exceed the equivalent of $5,000,000;

exercise its rights in relation to each such Sub-loan in such a
manner as to protect its interests and the interests of the
Borro ver, the Guarantor and the Bank, comply with its
olligations under its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement and
achiev e the purposes of the Project;

not assign any of its agreements providing for Sub-loans; and not
ainen:., abrogate or waive any of the provisions in its agreements
p-ovic ing for Sub-loans, specifically, with respect to the terms
aid conditions set forth in the Operations Manual, unless the
p-ior i:pproval of the Borrower has been obtained;

select and appraise Sub-projects that shall be duly constituted, in .
relevent part, of qualifying lease financing (as determined in
azcorlance with the qualifying criteria for lease financing as
siall be set forth in the Operations Manual), and otherwise
syper ‘ise, monitor and report on the carrying out by the SMEs of
the Sib-projects in accordance with the Operations Manual, and ’
easur: that no Excluded Activities are included in any Sub-
projert;

ensur: that each Sub-project shall comply with environmental
reviev procedures set forth in the Operations Manual and
Envir nmental Assessment Framework. To that end, PFIs shall
r2quive each SME applying for a Sub-loan to furnish evidence
satisf ictory to the Bank, showing that the Sub-project, in respect
cf wich the application has been prepared, is in accordance with
such orocedures;

-10-
(c)

@ .

(e)

(vil)

(viil)

(i)

(il)

| (111)

(i)

Gi)

ensure that for Sub-projects which require an Environmental
Management Plan, the SME shall carry out such plan ina timely
manner, requiring such Environmental Management Plan to be
in compliance with the Operations Manual and Environmental
Assessment Framework, and shall include adequate information
on the carrying out of such Environmental Management Plans in
the progress reports referred to in subparagraph (c) (ii) of this
paragraph; and

ensure that: (A) goods, works, non-consulting services and
consultants’ services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of
Section III of this Schedule; and (B) such goods, works and
services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Sub-
project.

exchange views with and furnish all such information to the
Bank or the Borrower, as may be reasonably requested by the
Bank and the Borrower, with regard to the progress of its
activities under the Project, the performance of its obligations
under its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Project;

prepare and submit to the Borrower quarterly reports on Sub-
loan disbursements and repayments, and annual reports on the
progress made in achieving the objectives outlined in the
business plans submitted with the Sub-loan applications; and

promptly inform the Bank and the Borrower of any condition
that interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of its ©
activities under its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement.

maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance
with sound accounting practices, its operations and financial
condition; and

furnish to the Bank such information concerning said records
and accounts as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.

assume the credit risk of each Sub-loan, as the case may be.

-|1-
C. Terms and Conditions of S 1b-loans

The principal terms atid cond tions set forth in this Section I.C shall apply for the
purposes of paragraph §(b)'i) of Section I.B.3 of this Schedule.

Cl

l.

C.2

SME Eligibility Criterit

Each S.b-loan shell be: made to a SME only if it has been established, to the
satisfaction of the Borrwer, that the following have been satisfied and shall be
maintained during the curation of the respective Sub-loan:

(a)
(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

a3
4

4

it is a SME;

it is a Private Enterprise. For purposes of this sub-paragraph 1 (b), a
Private Enterprise is an enterprise where more than fifty percent (50%)
of the shares or other equity interest thereof is held by persons or
companies other than the Guarantor, any agency or subdivision thereof,
or any Iccal governmental authority, or entities controlled by the
Guarartor or st ch agencies or subdivisions;

it has a saisfactory financial structure and the organization,
management, :taff and financial and other resources required for the
efficient carryi1g out of its operations, including the carrying out of the
Sub-pr yject;

it has :ash flow statement in accordance with the Operations Manual;
and :

it has a certificate from the relevant local or national authorities of the
Guararitor abcut. compliance with applicable environmental laws and
regulation; of the Guarantor.

Sub-project Eligit ility Criteria

Unless otherwise agreed betweert the Bank and the Borrower, a Sub-loan shall be
made for a Sul-projec. which is determined, on the basis of an appraisal carried
out in accordarice with procedures acceptable to the Bank:

(a)

(b)

v

to be techrically feasible and economically, financially and
commercially viable;

to be in comrliance with all requirements pertaining to environmental
protec:ion app icable under the laws and regulations of the Guarantor and
with the Enviionmental Policy Framework. To that end, the PFI shall
requir: each SME applying for a Sub-loan to furnish evidence
satisfastory to the PFI, the Borrower and the Bank, showing that the Sub-

-12-

 
C3

C4

project in respect of which the application has been made, has been
prepared in accordance with such procedures, such evidence to include,
inter alia, an environmental management plan prepared in accordance
with the requirements of the Environmental Policy Framework for a Sub-
project submitted for approval:

(c) not to be supporting or include the purchase of land or used equipment;
and

(d) not to be supporting or include any of the Excluded Activities.

Terms ;

Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, each Sub-loan shall be made on terms,
including those relating to the maturity, interest rate and other charges
determined in accordance with the PFI’s investment and lending policies and
practices, provided that: (i) the interest rate and other charges to be charged on
the principal amount thereof withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, shalt
equal at least the interest rate and other charges applicable from time to time to
the Subsidiary Loan pursuant to paragraph 3 of Section I.B.2 of this Schedule
plus the administrative costs and an appropriate credit risk margin; and (ii) the
sub-loan shall have a minimum maturity period of three (3) years.

Each Sub-loan to a SME shall not exceed $3,500,000.

No expenditures for a Sub-project shall be eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Loan unless such expenditures shall have been made not earlier
than one hundred eighty (180) days prior to the date on which the PFI shall have
received the Sub-loan application and any information required under paragraph
5 of Section I.B.3 of this Schedule in respect of such Sub-loan.

Conditions

A Sub-loan shall be made on further conditions whereby the PFI shall obtain, by
written contract with the SME or by other appropriate legal means, rights
adequate to protect its interests and the interests of the Guarantor, the Bank and
the Borrower, including the right to:

(a) Require the SME to carry out and operate the facilities financed under
the Sub-project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with
sound technical, financial and managerial standards, and in accordance
with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to
recipients of loan proceeds other than the Borrower, and to maintain
adequate records. :

-|3-
(b)

(c)

(d)

(¢)

(f)

(h)

(g)

Without lim taticn to the generality of the provisions of the preceding
paragrapli (a), re-yuire the SME to carry out and operate the Sub-project
with due regard to applicable social impact, ecological, environmental
and pollution cortrol standards and in accordance with the provisions of
the Operiitioas M anual.

For any Sub-prcject which needs an environmental management plan,
require the §ME to carry out such plan in a timely manner.

require that: (i) the goods, works, non-consulting services and
consultarits’ services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Sub-loan
shall be provureci in accordance with the provisions of Section II] of this
Schedule; and (i ) use such goods, works, and services exclusively in the
carrying out of the Sub-project.

Inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank, the
Borrower or the Guarantor, if the Bank or the Guarantor shall so request,
such goods and the sites, works, plants and construction included in the
Sub-proect, th: operation thereof, and any relevant records and
documenits.

Require that the SME shall take out and maintain with responsible
‘nsurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall
se consiste1t with sound business practice; and without any limitation
upon the foregc ing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the
acquisition, traisportation and delivery of goods financed out of the
proceeds cf the Sub-loan to the place of use or installation, any

_ indemnity there inder to be made payable in a currency freely usable by
* the SMI; to replace or repair such goods.

Obtain all such information as the Bank or the Borrower shall reasonably
request relz ting to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and
financiz| condition of the SME and to the benefits to be derived from the
Sub-prajec:.

Require: that th: SME not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of
its revenues and expenditures shows that its net revenues for each fiscal
year during: the term of.the debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.2 times
its estimated cebt service requirements in such year on all its debt,
including the debt to be incurred; and:

(i) the terr1 “debt” means any indebtedness of the SME;

(ii) deot stall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or
agreem ent or other instrument providing for such debt or for the

-14-
)

(i)

(iii)

(iv)

(v)

(vi)

modification of its terms of payment, on the date of such
contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee
agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such
guarantee has been entered into;

the term “debt service requirements” means the aggregate
amount of repayments of, and interest and other charges on,
debt;

the term “net revenues” means the difference between: (A) the
sum of income from all sources related to the SME’s operations;
and (B) the sum of expenses relgted to the SME’s operations
(including taxes), but excluding provision for depreciation, other
non-cash operating charges and interest and other charges on
debt;

the term “reasonable forecast” means a forecast prepared by the
SME not earlier than twelve months prior to the incurrence of
the debt in question, which the PFI and the SME accept as
reasonable and as to which the PFI has notified the SME of its
acceptability, provided that no event has occurred since such
notification which has, or may reasonably be expected in the
future to have, a material adverse effect on the financial
condition or future operating results of the SME; and

whenever for the purposes of this sub-paragraph 6(h) it shall be
necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the Guarantor,
debt payable in another currency, such valuation shall be made
on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which
such other currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable
for the purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such
rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the PFI.

Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, require that
the SME will have a ratio of debt to equity (after receipt of the Sub-loan)
no greater than 80:20, and the term “equity” means the sum of the total
unimpaired paid-up capital, retained earnings and reserves of the SME
not allocated to cover specific liabilities,

Suspend and terminate the right of the SME to the use of the proceeds of
the Sub-loan upon failure by such SME to perform its obligations under
its contract with the PFI.

-15-
C35

 

Approval Procedures

7. Bach Sub-loan shall be approved by the PFI on the basis of:

(a) a description oi the SME and an appraisal of the Sub-project, including a
descriptior of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the
proceecls of the Loan;

(b) the proposed terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the
schedule of amortization or lease payments of the Sub-loan,

(c) eviden:e of compliance with the Operations Manual and with the
Enviro amental Policy Framework; and

(d) such other information as the Bank or the Borrower shall reasonably
reques”.

8, Unless otherwise agreed with the Bank, the following Sub-loans shal{ not be
approved without -he Fiank’s prior approval: the first two (2) Sub-loans to SMEs
from each PFI.

9, A pricr approval by the Bank will be required of ali Sub-loans exceeding
$2,000,000.

Section Il. Project Moni oring Reporting and Evaluation

A. Project Reports

1. (a) © The Eiorrowe: shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project

(b)

(including progress in implementation of the Environmental Policy
Framewo:k atid plans prepared in accordance with said framework and
accepted by tie Bank) and prepare Project Reports in accordance with
the provisions of Section 5.08 of the Genera! Conditions and on the basis
of indicators :.greed with the Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the
perioc! of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not
later than fort y-five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such
report.

Withcut limiation on the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) above, the
Borrower shall list, in the Project Report, basic information relating to
each ‘3ub-pro ect approved for financing under the Project, including the
location and 1ature of the Sub-project, and the date on which Sub-project
activities begin and were completed. Additionally, the Borrower agrees
that the Elank may disclose the foregoing information to the public.

~-16§-
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits

The Borrower shall maintain or gause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.

Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report not later than forty-
five (45) days after the end of each calendar semester, interim unaudited financial
reports for the Project covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory
to the Bank.

4

The Borrower shall have:

(a) the Financial Statements for the Project audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of
the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the
Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall
be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of
such period; and

(b) its entity financial statements audited in accordance with standards set
out in Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of such
entity financial statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the
Borrower and be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after
the end of such period.

Section III. Procurement

A.

lL.

 

2

General

Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.

Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.

Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the

Me =
: ’

-17-
Procurenent Guidalines, or Sections II, III, TV and V of the Consultant
Guidelines, as tlie case 1nay be.

Particular Methoc's of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services |

International (omipetitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, work; and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.

Other Methocls of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The followit g method, other than International Competitive Bidding,
may be used for procur:ment of goods, works and non-consulting services where
the contract is estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $5,000,000: Well-
established Private Sec or Procurement Methods or Commercial Practices which
have been found acceptable to the Bank and described in the Operations Manual.

Particular Me:hois of Procurement of Consultants’ Services

Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultarts’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Ccst-based Selection.

Other Methocs of P-ocurement of Consultants’ Services. The following
method, other than ‘Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement oi consultants’ services where the contract is estimated to cost less
than the equivalent of $500,000: Well-established Private Sector Procurement
Methocls or Commercii.] Practices which have been found acceptable to the Bank
and described in tte Oy erations Manual.

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

Alt contracts “or: (1) zoods, works or non-consulting services procured using
International Competit ve Bidding; and (2) consultants’ services procured using
Quality and Cost-base1 Selection, shall be subject to the Bank’s Prior Review.
The first contract fro each PFI procured using Well-established Private Sector
Procurement Methods or Commercial Practices, shall be subject to the Bank’s
Prior Review. .All othe‘ contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.

-18-
Section IV. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

 

A. General

l. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.

2. The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the

amounts of the Loan, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for
Eligible Expenditures.
Allocated

(1) Sub-Loans 300,000,000
TOTAL | 300,000,000

B. Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

  
  
  

Amount of the Loan Percentage of Expenditures

to be Financed

(Inclusive of Taxes)
80% of amount of Sub-loans
disbursed

l. Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made: .-

  
  
   

      
  

    
   
  

    

(a) ". from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the
Front-end Fee; or |

(b) for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $30,000,000 may
be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after January 1,
2013, for Eligible Expenditures under Category (1).

2. The Closing Date is December 29, 2017.

~19.
SS

SCHEDULE 3

Amortization Schedule

1. The fo lowing table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of ‘he total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date {“Irstall nent Share”). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the frst Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable ty tte Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bark by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Pavmert Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such re »ayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amoun's referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency

Conversion ap lies.
Installment Share
xpressed as a Percentage

2.04%

2.08%

2. If the proceeds. of the J.oan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, th: priacipal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Pavmert Date shall be determined as follows:

Principal Payment | date

   
   
    
   

  
  
 
 

On each April 1 and October |
Beginning April 1, 201
Through October 1, 2042

On April],2043

(a) To the: extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
| the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Lcan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph |
of this Sc1edule.

“at

(b) Any amount ‘vithdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal ir amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the or ginal Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”)
and the denoninator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Install me1t Sliares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, suc: am unts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts refer ed to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency

- -Conversion ay plies.

-20-
(a) Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.

(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
_ Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in ‘the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.

If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a Separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.

‘

-2]-
APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

 

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines’ means the “Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Freud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011, which

are applicable to a!I IB <D loans and IDA credits and grants.

“Bank” means a bank registered and operating as such in accordance with the
applicable law: and re zulations of the Guarantor pertaining to banking, while at
the same time lizens:d to engage in transactions that include transactions
qualify ng as leasing i accordance with the applicable laws and regulations of
the Guarantor siertiining to leasing.

“Category” means a ca ‘egory set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Ag-eement,

“Category A Sub-projects” means Sub-projects which are likely to have
significant adverse environmental impacts that are sensitive, diverse, or
unprecedented and req ire a full environmental impact assessment pursuant to
the provisions of th: Operations Manual and the Environmental Policy
Framework.

“Consu.tant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants un jer IBRD Loans. and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers” dated Januery 2011.

“Displaced Persons” means persons who, on account of the execution of the
Project, have «xperienzed or would experience direct economic and social
impacts caused by: (a) he involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation
or loss of shelter; ‘ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income
sources or means of | velihood, whether or not such persons must move to
another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated
parks ard prote:tec. areiis, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such
persons.

“Environmental A.ssessment Framework” means Environmental Review
Procedu:es disc osed by the Borrower on April 3, 2013, which set forth policies
and procedures fo; environmental screening of Sub-projects, for conducting
environmental assessments and specifying requirements for environmental
mitigation measures to be included in environmental management plans; and
such document constitut 2s an integral part of the Operations Manual.

-22-
 

10.

11.

12.

13.

“Environmental Management Plan” means any specific environmental
management plan to be carried out, satisfactory to the Bank, by an SME under a
Sub-project, as may be required pursuant to the due observance of the
Environmental Assessment Framework by the PFIs and SMEs, and in accordance
with the provisions of the respective Sub-loan Agreement, as referred to in
paragraph 6(c) of Section 1.C.4 of Schedule 2 of this Agreement, wherein shall
have been defined specific details of measures to manage potential environmental
risks and mitigate, reduce and/or offset adverse environmental impacts associated
with the implementation of activities under the Sub-project, together with
adequate institutional, monitoring and reporting arrangements capable of
ensuring proper implementation of, and regular feedback on compliance with, its
terms, as the same such environmental Management Plan may be amended and
supplemented from time to time, satisfactory to the Bank.

“Excluded Activities” means, collectively:

(a) any of the activities listed, or activities that produce and/or use materials
listed, in the Operations Manual and which are classified and referred to
as part of the negative list in said manual;

(b) an investment that is classified as a Category “A” Sub-project in
accordance with the provisions of the Operations Manual;

(c) an investment that entails land acquisition or involuntary resettlement or
would give rise to Displaced Persons; :

(d) an investment that involves the potential use of, or discharge into,
international waterways (or detailed design and engineering studies of
such investment), as such waterways shall have been described more
specifically in the Operations Manual; and

(e) ... an investment that involves the construction of a new dam or will rely on
:, the performance of an existing dam or a dam under construction.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated March 12, 2012.

“Guarantee Agreement” means the agreement of the same date between the
Republic of Turkey and the Bank providing for the guarantee of the Loan, as
such agreement may be amended from time to time.

“Guarantor” means the Republic of Turkey.

“Leasing Company” means a company registered and operating in accordance

with the applicable laws and regulations of the Guarantor pertaining to
companies; while at the same time licensed to engage in transactions that include

-23-
14,

15,

17,

18.

20,

21,

22.

23.

transac:ions qualifying as leasing in accordance with the applicable laws and
regulations of the (Juar intor pertaining to leasing.

“Operations Manual” rieans the manual to be adopted by the Borrower, setting
out the operatinna. anc administrative procedures in respect of the preparation,
approval, processng, financing, implementation, and supervision of Sub-
projects, and the manual includes the Environmental Policy Framework.

“Participating l'inancia. Institution” and the acronym “PFI” mean any or each
Participating Bank or L zasing Company selected by the Borrower pursuant to the
criteria set forth in paragraph 1 Section LB.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and the Operations Mar ual. '

“Priority Regions” meens such regions as defined in the Council of Ministers
Decree Number 2( 12/3839, published in the Official Gazette numbered 28445
and dated Octotier .8, 2912.

“Procurement Guidalines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Nori-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers’ dated January 2011.

“Project Implementaticn Unit” and the acronym “PIU” mean the project
implementation unit within the Borrower’s Investor Relations and International
Finance Departrien:, or any successor to such unit.

“SME” is an ecronym for Small or Medium Enterprise that has less than
40,000,000 Turkish Lir:: in sales and employs fewer than 250 employees, and
satisfies the appropriate criteria as set forth in paragraph | of Section 1.C.1 of
Schedule 2 to this Agre:ment and the Operations Manual, and to which the PFI
proposes to mak:: or has made a Sub-loan.

“Sub-loan” meals a leas> contract entered or proposed to be entered between the
PFIs.and selectec! SMEs.

“Sub-project” mans a secific project, selected in accordance with paragraph 2
of Section I.C.2 wf Schec ule 2 to this Agreement, which is proposed to be carried
out by an SME, in ~whol2 or in part through the utilization of the proceeds of a
Sub-loan,

“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” and the acronym “SLA” mean an agreement
entered or to be entere{ into between the Borrower and a PFI pursuant to
paragraph 5 of Section L.\ of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Subsidiary Loar” mean: any loan made by the Borrower to a PFI pursuant to a

Subsidiary Loan Agreem nt.

-24-
24.

25,

“Turkish lira” means the currency of the Guarantor.
“Ziraat Bank” and “T.C. Ziraat Bankasi A. S.” mean a joint stock company

established pursuant to the statutes published in Trade Registry Gazette No. 5251
dated March 3, 2001 (Trade Registry No. 4603).

-25-
