Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

| OFFICIAL |
DOCUMENTS |
‘omen: mee”

LOAN NUMBER 8201-BR

Loan Agreement

(SWAp for Parana Multi-sector Development Project -
Projeto Multissetorial para o Desenvolvimento do Parana)

between

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

and

STATE OF PARANA

Dated LDecembar f od , 2013

 
LOAN AGREEMENT

Agreement dated December 12, 2013, between the INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) and the STATE
OF PARANA (“Borrower”). The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01. The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

1.02. Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IT — LOAN

2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of three hundred and fifty million
Dollars ($350,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07
of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the cost of the project
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”).

2.02. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement:

(a) in respect of Part 1 of the Project to reimburse the Eligible Expenditures
incurred by the Borrower under the Eligible Expenditure Programs; and

(b) in respect of Part 2 of the Project to reimburse the Borrower for Eligible
Expenditures incurred or as advances to the Borrower’s designated
account identified in the instructions referred to in Section IV.A.1 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, all to finance Eligible Expenditures
incurred by the Borrower under the Project.

The Borrower’s representative for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken pursuant to this Section is the Secretary of Finance.

2.03. The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.

 
2.04.

2.05.

2.06.

2.07.

The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.

The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

(a) The Borrower may at any time, in each case with the prior no objection
of the Guarantor, through the Secretariat of the National Treasury of the
Guarantor’s Ministry of Finance, request any of the following
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt
management: (i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an
Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to:
(A) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.

(b) Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.

(c) Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or

Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on

_2-

 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance
with Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE Ill — PROJECT

3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall:

(a) Under the overall coordination of SEPL, carry out:
(i) Part 1.1(a) of the Project through SEAB with the assistance of:

(A) EMATER with respect to all parts of Part 1.1(a) of the
Project;

(B) ITCG with respect to land regularization under Part
1.1(a) (11) (B) of the Project;

(C) Municipalities in respect of Part 1.1 (a) (ii) (c) of the
Project; and

(D) Associations with respect to Part 1.1(a) (iii) of the
Project.

(11) Part 1.1(b) of the Project through SEAB with the assistance of:

(A) EMATER with respect to Parts 1.1(b) (i) and (ii) of the
Project;

(B) |AGUASPARANA with respect to Part 1.1(b) (iii) (D)
(C) Municipalities and Associations of selected micro-
catchments areas with respect to Parts 1.1(b) (iii) (B);

and

(D) Producers Associations with respect to part 1.1 (b) (iii)
(C) of the Project.

(iii) = Part 1.2(a) of the Project through SEMA with the assistance of

IAP and AGUASPARANA in the areas of responsibilities of the
agencies concerned.

-3-
3.02.

4.01.

5.01.

5.02.

5.03.

(iv) Part 1.2(b) of the Project through SEMA with the assistance of
Civil Defense, IAP and AGUASPARANA in the areas of
responsibilities of the agencies concerned.

(v) Part 1.3 of the Project through SEED with the assistance of
Municipalities with respect to Part 1.3(c) thereof.

(vi) Part 1.4 of the Project through SESA with the assistance of: (A)
Municipalities and Health Service Providers with respect to Part
1.4(a) of the Project; and (B) Municipalities with respect of Part
1.4(b) of the Project.

(b) Carry out Part 2 of the Project through SEPL with the assistance of the
Project Secretariats and the Project Agencies mentioned in the preceding
paragraphs in the activities under their respective jurisdictions.

Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK

The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that any of
the Participating Entities shall have failed to perform any of their obligations
under the corresponding Implementation Agreement.

ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely a
Project Operational Manual satisfactory to the Bank has been adopted by the
Borrower.

The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely that the Loan has
been duly registered with the Guarantor’s Central Bank of Brazil.

Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank's approval of the Loan
which expire on May 6, 2014.

 
 

6.01.

6.02.

if

ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

Except as provided in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower’s
Representative is its Governor.

The Bank’s Address is:

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America

Cable address: Telex: Facsimile:

INBAFRAD 248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 64145(MCI)

The Borrower’s Address is:

Palacio Iguacu,

Praca Nossa Senhora de Salette S/N
Centro Civico

80530-909 Curitiba, Parana

Brazil

Facsimile: 55-41-3313-6333

With copy to:

Secretaria do Planejamento e Coordenacao Geral
Palacio das Araucarias, 4to andar

Rua Jacy Loureiro de Campos S/N

Centro Civico

80530-915 Curitiba, Parana

Brazil

Facsimile: 55-41-3313-6285

SEAIN -— Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais do
Ministério do Planejamento, Orgamento e Gestdo
Esplanada dos Ministérios — Bloco “K” — 5 andar
70040-906 Brasilia, DF

Brazil

Facsimile: 55-61-2020-5006

 
AGREED at 0 - Fog: to , | , as of
the day and year first above written.

 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By [liwh y Magy |

Authorized Representative
STATE OF PARANA

By

   

Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description

The objective of the Project is to make access to economic and human
development opportunities more equitable and environmentally sustainable in the
Borrower’s territory through the modernization of the Borrower’s public sector and
revenue management.

Part 1: Fostering Equitable and Environmental Sustainable Economic and Human
Development

Carrying out of the Eligible Expenditure Programs (EEPs) as follows:

1.1 Sustainable Rural Development

(a) Territorial Economic Development (Pro-Rural)

Improvement of the competitiveness of small rural producers in the
Central Region, including the following:

(i) capacity building of small rural producers in the Central Region,
including vulnerable groups such as indigenous people and
Quilombolas, and capacity building of strategic partners
involved in Project implementation, such as EMATER,
territorial and municipal councils, local leaders and non-
governmental organizations;

(ii) strengthening the provision of public support services in: (A)
research and innovation; (B) land regularization; and (C) rural
roads rehabilitation; and

(iii) | support for sustainable business initiatives of groups of small
rural producers through the provision of Grants to Associations
to carry out selected activities to foster greater integration of
producers groups with remunerative value-chains.

(b) Improved Water and Soil Management in Micro-catchments

Fostering sustainable agriculture in selected micro-catchment areas most
susceptible to environmental degradation through:

(i) the adoption of improved methodologies and techniques for the
sustainable management of rural areas;

 
1.2

1.3

(11) environmental education; and

(iii) the promotion of the adoption of sustainable agricultural and
natural resource management practices by rural producers in
selected micro-catchment areas through:

(A)
(B)

(C)

(D)

the preparation of micro-catchment development plans;

the provision of Grants to Associations or Municipalities
for the benefit of groups of rural producers for
implementation of priority activities identified in the
micro-catchment development plans prepared under the
Project;

the provision of Grants to Producer Associations for the
implementation of agro-ecological business initiatives;
and

improved access to potable water for poorer
communities in priority areas.

Environmental and Disaster Risk Management

(a) Modernization of the Environmental Licensing System

Adoption of new techniques and procedures for environmental licensing,
and capacity-building of the Borrower’s environmental agencies to
strengthen environmental compliance and enforcement.

(b) Natural and Man-Made Disaster Risk Management

Carrying out of activities to strengthen the Borrower’s system for
prevention and response to disasters and capacity-building of the Project
Secretariats and Project Agencies involved.

Education

(a) Learning Assessment System

Implementation of SEED’s student learning assessment system and
carrying out of tests and dissemination activities.

(b) Teacher Development Program

 
Improvement of the skills and proficiency of teachers in the Borrower’s
schools network (rede publica estadual), through in-service and
university-based teacher training for such teachers.

(c) Upgrading of State School Facilities (Renova Escola)
Rehabilitation, repairs and, in some cases, expansion of the existing
Borrower’s (escolas estaduais) schools, science laboratories,
libraries and computer laboratories, and the provision of school
furniture and some equipment.
1.4 Health
(a) Emergency Care

Expansion and consolidation of the emergency health care network,
through:

(1) the provision of in-service management training, improving
management capacity for referral hospitals and other health
facilities with focus on scaling-up, care deliveries flows, logistics
and managerial processes;

(11) the provision of technical care training, developing and
implementing care guidelines based on scientific evidence;

(iii) | expansion of trauma care, aero medical transport and specialized
health services for treating multiple trauma, myocardial
infarction and stroke;

(iv) expansion of pre-hospital emergency health care;

(v) implementation of performance-based contracts; and

(vi) the strengthening of the Borrower’s patient referral system.

(b) Infant and Maternal Healthcare Network

(i) expansion of infant and maternal health care; and

(ii) construction, expansion and equipping of primary care units of
selected Municipalities.

 
Part 2: Technical Assistance for More Efficient and Effective Public Management

2.1

2.2

2.3

Fiscal Quality

Provision of technical assistance to review:

(a)

(b)
(c)

(i) the motor-vehicle property tax (IPVA) assessment and collection
process; and

(ii) the assessment and collection process of the tax on inheritances and
donations (ITCMD);

the process of collection of overdue taxes; and

all public segregated funds.

Institutional Modernization

(a)

(b)
(c)

(d)

review of organizational structures and procedures for the modernization
of the Borrower’s public administration;

strengthening of budget processes;

introduction of results-based management and strengthening of
monitoring and evaluation capacity; and

strengthening of internal control procedures.

More Strategic and Efficient Human Resources Management

(a)
(b)

(c)

(d)
(c)

strengthening of controls over personnel expenditures;

improving attraction and retention of personnel, in particular, in center-
of-government institutions;

modernization of the Borrower’s Human Resource Management
Directorate and its units statewide;

modernization of the Borrower's occupational health service; and

strengthening of the Borrower’s School of Government and promoting a
performance-based public administration.

-10-

 
2.4 Mitigating the Environmental Impact of the Agricultural Sector
(a) review of existing studies on the impact of key agricultural subsectors on
the environment (in particular on water, soil, biodiversity and greenhouse

gas emissions), as well as carrying out of complementary analysis as
needed;

(b) analysis of options available to address the negative impacts of sub-
sector activities identified under (a) above; and

(c) analysis of financing instruments available to mitigate the impact of the
agricultural sector on the environment and how they could be used at the
state, municipal and other administrative subdivision levels.

2.5 Support to the Modernization of the Environmental Licensing System

(a) carrying out studies and analysis related to environmental monitoring
and enforcement;

(b) modernization of the information technology systems; and

(c) training related to the strengthened environmental management approach
developed under Part 1.2 (a) of the Project.

2.6 Support to the Development of a State Disaster Risk Management System
(a) carrying out studies for the development of diagnostics, methodologies,
plans and procedures for the management of risk and disaster in the
Borrower’s territory; and
(b) capacity building related thereto.
2.7 Education

(a) design and setting up of a new learning assessment system;

(b) impact evaluation of the Borrower’s education development plans to
improve teacher effectiveness; and

(c) development of an integrated system for the management of the
Borrower’s schools infrastructure and equipment.

-ll-

 
2.8

Health

(a)

(b)

(c)

design and structuring of a robust information system to monitor the
health care networks implementation, including planning, budgeting,
epidemiological indicators and monitoring and evaluations modules;

development and implementation of a communication plan driven by the
Borrower’s health system users and professionals; and

carrying out of patient satisfaction surveys to evaluate the quality of
services provided by Health Service Providers.

-12-

 
 

Section I.

SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Implementation Arrangements

Institutional Arrangements

1. No later than two (2) months after the Effective Date, the Borrower shall create
and thereafter operate and maintain, until the completion of the Project:

(a)

(b)

a coordination unit within SEPL, to be responsible for the overall
coordination of the Project (the ‘““PCU”). Such unit shall have staff in
adequate numbers and with qualifications and experience satisfactory to
the Bank including a Project coordinator, a deputy coordinator, a
procurement specialist, a financial management specialist, a safeguards
specialist and other personnel needed for the effective implementation of
the Project, all as set forth in the Project Operational Manual; and

a Project Management Committee, with representatives of all the Project
Secretariats and Project Agencies involved in the Project to be
responsible for overseeing implementation, monitoring and evaluation of
all Project activities at least twice a year, and provide recommendations
based on the review of the progress reports and other relevant documents
prepared for the Project, and with structure and functions satisfactory to
the Bank, as set forth in the Project Operational Manual.

B. Inter-Institutional Agreements

l, The Borrower shall, prior to initiating Project activities for which a Participating
Entity is responsible, and following the model in the Project Operational Manual,
enter into separate implementation agreements (the Implementation Agreements),

satisfactory to the Bank:

(a) through SEAB, with EMATER and ITCG for implementation of their
respective Parts of Part 1.1(a) of the Project;

(b) through SEAB, with EMATER, AGUASPARANA, and Producer
Associations for implementation of their respective Parts of Part 1.1(b)
of the Project;

(c) through SEMA, with IAP and AGUASPARANA for implementation of

their respective Parts of Part 1.2(a) of the Project;

-13-
(d) through SEMA, and Civil Defense with IAP and AGUASPARANA for
implementation of their respective Parts of Part 1.2(b) of the Project;

(e) through SEED, with Municipalities for implementation of their
respective Parts of Part 1.3 (c) of the Project;

(f) through SESA, with Municipalities and Health Service Providers for
implementation of their respective parts of Parts 1.4 (a) and (b) of the
Project;

(g) through SEAB, with each Municipalities and/or Association, as the case
may be, for the implementation of their respective parts under Part 1.1(a)
of the Project; and

(h) through SEAB, with each Municipality, Association and/or Producer
Association, as the case may be, for the implementation of their
respective parts under Part 1.1(b) of the Project.

setting forth, inter alia:

(a) the relevant Participating Entity’s obligation: (A) to comply, as
applicable, with the Safeguards Documents, the Anti-Corruption
Guidelines, and the provisions set forth in Section III of this Schedule 2;
and

(b) financial management provisions detailing the flow of information and/or
flow of funds between SEPL and the relevant Participating Entity in
order for the Borrower to comply with its obligations under Section II of
this Schedule 2.

The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under each of
the Implementation Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, assign, terminate,
waive or fail to enforce any provision of any of the Implementation Agreements.
In case of any conflict between the terms of any of the Implementation
Agreements and those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall
prevail.

Implementation Arrangements for Part 1 of the Project
The Borrower shall, through SEPL, furnish to the Bank on or about February 28

and August 31 of each year, starting on the first such date after the Effective
Date, regular reports (the EEP Spending Reports) prepared in accordance with

-14-

 
 

the provisions of the Project Operational Manual and the additional instructions
referred to in Section IV.A. of this Schedule.

The Borrower shall, through SEPL:

(a) have all the Project procurement records and documentation for each
calendar year of Part 1 of the Project audited, in accordance with
appropriate procurement auditing principles by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank;

(b) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six
months after the end of each such calendar year, the procurement audit
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as
the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

(c) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said procurement
records and documentation and the procurement audit thereof as the
Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.

The Borrower shall ensure that the budget code number indicated in Schedule 4
to this Agreement shall conform to the Borrower’s annual budget law. The
Borrower and the Bank agree that such budget code number may change under
the Borrower’s subsequent annual budget laws, provided, however, that there is
no change in the corresponding EEP described in Schedule 4 of this Agreement
and in the underlying activities to be financed by the Bank under such EEP.

The Borrower and the Bank may jointly review, once every year, the amounts
assigned per budget code to the EEPs detailed in Schedule 4 to this Agreement,
and the Borrower shall adjust as needed the budget amounts of any EEP with the
prior written agreement of the Bank.

The Borrower shall not later than eighteen (18) months after the Effective Date,
carry out a mid-term review with the Bank on the overall progress in the
execution of Part 1 of the Project and on the accomplishment of said Part of the
Project and shall agree with the Bank whether it will be necessary to modify any
existing DLIs or incorporate new ones, all in a manner acceptable to the Bank.

If, at any time, the Bank determines that any portion of the Loan proceeds was
used for items improperly procured in violation of Section III to this Schedule,
was not used for Eligible Expenditures or, in case of the Eligible Expenditure
Programs under Part 1 of the Project, was not supported by evidence of actual
spending by the Borrower under said Eligible Expenditure Programs and/or by
evidence of satisfaction of other criteria set forth in this Agreement or in the
Project Operational Manual, the Borrower shall promptly refund any such
portion to the Bank as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.

-15-
Anti-Corruption

The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.

Safeguards

The Borrower shall, through the Project Secretariats, implement and cause the
Project Agencies and other Participating Entities to implement the Project in
accordance with the provisions of the Environmental Management Framework
(EMF) (including with the provisions of each Environmental Management Plan
as approved by the Bank), and the Indigenous Peoples Framework (including
with the provisions of each Indigenous Peoples Plan as approved by the Bank).
The Borrower shall ensure that Project activities do not involve any
Resettlement. In the event that any Resettlement was to take place, implement
and cause the Project Agencies and other Participating Entities to implement the
Project in accordance with the Involuntary Resettlement Framework (including
with the provisions of each Resettlement Plan as approved by the Bank).

Project Operational Manual

The Borrower shall, with the assistance of the Participating Entities, implement
the Project in accordance with a manual, satisfactory to the Bank (the Project
Operational Manual), which shall include, inter alia:

(a) the Performance Indicators;

(b) the procedures for the carrying out and monitoring of the Project;

(c) the detailed criteria for the monitoring of the DLIs;

(d) the procurement and financial requirements of the Project;

(e) the roles and responsibilities of each Project Secretariat and Project
Agencies and other Participating Entities;

(f) the Environmental Management Framework;
(g) the Involuntary Resettlement Framework;

(h) the Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework;

_16-

 
(1) the Project chart of accounts and internal controls, reporting procedures
and the format of the Interim unaudited financial reports referred to in
Section II.B.2 of this Schedule;

(j) a model of Implementation Agreements; and

(k) the specific requirements for disbursements under EEPs including the
coefficients of the Budget Execution Rule, the DLIs applicable to each
withdrawal and the format of the EEP Spending Report.

2. In case of any conflict between the terms of the Operational Manual and this
Agreement, the provision of this Agreement shall prevail.

3. Except as the Borrower and the Bank may otherwise agree in writing, the
Borrower shall not abrogate, amend, suspend, waive or otherwise fail to enforce
the Project Operational Manual or any provision thereof.

Section II. Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

A. Project Reports

l. The Borrower, through SEPL, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the
Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section
5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the Performance Indicators.
Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than 60 days after the end of the period covered
by each such report.

2. Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the Borrower
shall, through SEPL, include the following information in each Project Report:

(a) the Borrower’s compliance with the DLIs; and
(b) a section describing any condition which interferes or that could

potentially interfere with Project implementation, including any
environmental/social issues that may arise during Project

implementation.
B. Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
l. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.

-17-

 
Without limitation to the provisions of Part 1 of this Section, the Borrower,
through SEPL, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of each Project
Report, interim unaudited financial reports and customized statement of
expenditures, as defined in the Project Operational Manual, for the Project
covering the pertinent semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.

The Borrower, through SEPL, shall have its Financial Statements audited in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.
Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of
the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of such period.

Section III. Procurement

General

Goods, Works and Non-Consulting Services. All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and in accordance with
the provisions of this Schedule as the case may be.

Consultant Services. All consultant services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines, and in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule, as the case
may be.

Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.

Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-Consulting
Services

International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.

Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-Consulting

Services. The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than
International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, works and

_18-
 

non-consulting services. The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances
under which such methods may be used.

Procurement Method

(a) National Competitive Bidding (including in respect of goods, non-consulting
services and works, convite, tomada de precos and concorréncia set forth in the
Guarantor’s Law No. 8.666 of June 21, 1993, as well as procurement in accordance
with the method known as “pregdo eletrénico”, as provided in the Guarantor’s
Law No. 10.520, of July 17, 2002, under an e-procurement system approved by the
Bank), subject to the following additional procedure, namely that the bidding
documents shall be acceptable to the Bank

(b) Shopp ing
(c) Direct Contracting

(d) Community Participation following procedures acceptable to the Bank, as
described in the Project Operational Manual.
C.

Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services

     
 
     
  
 

    
       

1, Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.

2. Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services. The Procurement Plan
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used.

Procurement Method

(e) Procedures set forth in Section V of the Consultants Guidelines for the Selection of
Individual Consultants

(f) Single Source Selection (SSS)

D. Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

   
     
   
         
   

The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank’s Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.

-19-
Section IV. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. General

l. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions (Disbursement Letter) as the Bank shall specify by notice
to the Borrower (including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for
Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 3 below.

2. Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, withdrawals
of the Loan may be made as: (a) reimbursements in respect of Parts 1 and 2 of
the Project; or (b) advances to the Borrower’s designated account identified in
the instructions referred to in paragraph 1 above in respect of Part 2 of the
Project.

3, The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (Category’), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.

   
 
   

Amount of the Loan | Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated to be financed

  
 
   

    

       
   
  
   
  
 

      
   
  

Category (expressed in USD) (inclusive of taxes)
Eligible Expenditure 314,125,000 50% of aggregate EEP
Programs under Part 1 expenditures
of the Project

  

Goods, consultants’
services, non-consulting
services, Training and
Operating Costs under
Part 2 of the Project
Front-end Fee

  
     
     
 
      

35,000,000 100%
875,000 Amount payable pursuant to
Section 2.03 of this Agreement
in accordance with Section
2.07(b) of the General
Conditions
Rate Caps or Interest

Amount due pursuant to
Section 2.07 (c) of this
Rate Collars i

TOTAL AMOUNT 350,000,000

-20 -

   

 
 
  

Premium for Interest

   

 
4. For the purposes of this Section:

(a) the term “Training” means expenditures (other than for consultants’
services) incurred in connection with the carrying out of training,
seminars, and workshops under the Project, including, inter alia,
logistics, the reasonable travel cost (including transportation and lodging)
and per-diem of the trainers and trainees, tuition fees, as well as training
materials; and

(b) the term “Operating Costs” means the following management and
supervision costs, to the extent they would not have been incurred absent
the Project, including, inter alia; maintenance of office space, furniture
and equipment; rental of office space; communication costs; processing
fees for land regularization, per diem and travel expenditures of the
Borrower’s and of selected Project Secretariats and Project Agencies’
staff as specified in the Operational Manual, all as approved annually by
the Bank.

B. Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

1. Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made:

(a) for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $50,000,000
equivalent may be made for payments made up to twelve months prior to
such date but on or after January 1, 2012, for Eligible Expenditures under
Category (1); and

(b) for payments made under Category (1) unless:

(1) the relevant EEP Spending Report, as referred to in Section. I.
C.1. of this Schedule, shall have been submitted to, and found
satisfactory by, the Bank, in accordance with the provisions of
the Project Operational Manual and the additional instructions
referred to in Section IV.A.1 of this Schedule; and

(ii) the applicable Budget Execution Rule, and any applicable
Disbursement-Linked Indicators have been met by the Borrower
in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, all as set forth in
the Project Operational Manual and in the additional instructions
referred to in Section IV.A.1 of this Schedule.

-21-

 
If the Bank has not received evidence of full compliance with the Budget
Execution Rule, in respect to any Loan withdrawal under Category (1), other than
for the first, second, seventh and eighth application for withdrawal (as referred to
in the Project Operational Manual and additional instructions referred to in
Section IV.A.1 of this Schedule) then, the planned disbursement amount shall be
reduced applying the Execution Coefficient in the applicable value set forth in
the Project Operational Manual and additional instructions referred to in Section
IV.A.1 of this Schedule; all as set forth therein.

If the Bank has not received evidence of full compliance with the DLIs, in
respect to any Loan withdrawal under Category (1), other than for the first
application for withdrawal then, the planned disbursement amount (after the
application of the Budget Execution Rule above) for the third, fourth, fifth and
sixth application for withdrawal (as referred to in the Project Operational Manual
and additional instructions referred to in Section IV.A.1 of this Schedule) shall! be
disbursed in accordance with the DLI Formula, as referred to in the Project
Operational Manual and additional instructions referred to in Section IV.A.1 of
this Schedule.

Without limitation to the provisions in paragraphs 2 and 3 above, if the Budget
Execution Rule is only partially met, and/or the Bank has received only partial
evidence of compliance under the DLIs, and/or the Borrower has not presented
enough Eligible Expenditures under the EEPs to disburse the full planned
disbursement amounts, the Bank may, at its option, authorize that the
unwithdrawn portion of the Loan resulting from this lack of evidence be carried
forward to the subsequent withdrawals, provided that, if this occurs, the amount
to be disbursed by the Bank, in the aggregate under all subsequent withdrawals,
shall not exceed 50% of the sum of the total amounts of EEPs referred in the last
four columns of the table in Schedule 4 to this Agreement for the years up to and
including the one for which the withdrawal is made.

The amounts carried forward for subsequent withdrawals shall be disbursed as
follows:

(a) the amounts carried forward due to noncompliance with the Budget
Execution Rule in one or more Project Sectors may be disbursed only if
at the time of the subsequent withdrawal:

(i) the Budget Execution Rule has been met for the applicable
Project Sector(s); and

(11) the Borrower has submitted documentation of Eligible

Expenditures in the amount of at least 2 times the withdrawal
amount requested;

-22-

 
 

(b) the amounts carried forward due to the non-achievement of DLIs may be
disbursed, only if at the time of the subsequent withdrawal:

(i) the applicable DLIs have subsequently been achieved; and

(ii) the Borrower has submitted documentation of Eligible
Expenditures in the amount of at least 2 times the withdrawal
amount requested; and

(c) the amounts carried forward due to lack of documentation of Eligible
Expenditures in the amount of at least 2 times the amount requested for
withdrawal, may be disbursed at the time of the subsequent withdrawal
only if such amount of Eligible Expenditures is then submitted;

all in accordance with the provisions set forth or referred to in the Project
Operational Manual and the additional instructions referred to in Section IV.A.1
of this Schedule.

If any amount remains to be withdrawn from the Loan Account after the seventh
application for withdrawal (as referred to in the Project Operational Manual and
additional instructions referred to in Section IV.A.1 of this Schedule) due to
partial evidence of compliance with the Budget Execution Rule and/or the DLIs
and/or lack of documentation of Eligible Expenditures, the Bank may, at its
option, authorize such remaining amount to be disbursed as an exceptional
disbursement, prior to the Closing Date, in accordance with the DLI Formula (as
referred to in the Project Operational Manual and additional instructions referred
to in Section [V.A.1 of this Schedule) and provided the Borrower has submitted
documentation of Eligible Expenditures in the amount of at least 2 times the
withdrawal amount requested.

The Closing Date is November 30, 2017. The Bank may grant an extension of the

Closing Date only after the Guarantor’s Ministry of Finance has informed the
Bank that it agrees with such extension.

-23-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule

Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall
repay each Disbursed Amount in semiannual installments payable on each April
15 and October 15, the first installment to be payable on the eleventh (11th)
Interest Payment Date following the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed
Amount and the last installment to be payable on the thirtieth (30th) Interest
Payment Date following the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed Amount.
Each installment except for the last one shall be equal to one-twentieth (1/20) of
the Disbursed Amount. The last installment shall be equal to the remaining
outstanding amount of the Disbursed Amount.

If any one or more installments of principal of the Disbursed Amount would,
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Schedule, be payable after
October 15, 2031, the Borrower shall also pay on such date the aggregate amount
of all such installments.

The Bank shall notify the Loan Parties of the amortization schedule for each
Disbursed Amount promptly after the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed
Amount.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs | through 3 of this Schedule, in the
event of a Currency Conversion of all or any portion of a Disbursed Amount to
an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that
is repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.

If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,

the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency.

-24-

 
000°SSL*LZ

ITE08S'06

706 0L8'0E1

pa

-SC"

OOS'LES'b] O0S*L9P‘0T| 000°0SZ'Z1

000°0ZS"E} 000°098 ‘ZI} + 000°008
O€E'SET HE] SOT SOLVE] 9LL'6E9' IZ

Z9S‘9E6'9E

eaten

LSV716 9b] E81'7ZO'LP

ZT AVIA [ vax 9B 4

ospng|/

(Sy UI posso1dx7y)
SMUIBISOIg dNjIpusdxy a qIsITq

¥ WIAGHHOS

10}NIIXY-07)
JOJNIIX|

yUSWIASeURI\] YSIY JOsesiq
opey-urp] pure [emjen

UOTVZTUINPOJ] WId}sAG
SUISUDOT'T [eJUSUTUOIIAU

syustO}e-
-O1DIJ Ul JUSUTASeUR|]

[IOS pure Joje Ay poaoidury

TVUNU-Od — Juoudojaaaq
OMMOUODT [PLIOFLLI J,

 

dAW/1099g JDaforg/sixy

 

 
-OC-

      

    

(asuanuDidd av) JIOMION
ale) Yeo [ewuloyepy pue yueyuy

          

006°80r'S TI VSHS

TO¢
LOE

  

006°L18°6SE] OOO'STO‘OS| 000°6L7°98|000'S T T'80T

OZP'60ZLSE] OO0'OES‘9I} 000°06L‘E9]000'OIh‘PET] OZh‘6LT‘Z1

       

     

aieg Aouasiswy

 

 

 

 

                

6
‘
€ ¢

(nj0IST DAoUay)

v60r GaAs SOT [IOV] [OOS fo Surpeisd¢)

CaaASs| weiso1g yuourdopsaaq Joyoes |
CHos

osszsvi] 000009°€0T| 000°000'L6| + Oss*zS0'19

C

    

    

    

      

  

  

__oostzzr'st] | _ooorzs's

   
    

a“

\%
Yod
DY} JO UONLUSUIS[AUMT SY} IOF
suonoe oTjloeds SuTuljap woday
UeITd WAG 2eI1S ‘Teuotyerado
Adtjod ou} SUTyeUI JO} syuSWIDOISe
poysl[qeiso pue siojoer Suryediosed
‘yzomourely Aotjod ay} SuIquosap
poday :ylomouwrey Ado
"S]090}01d Jo a[dures pue

wio}sXs ayy Ag poyeiouas syrodal jo
saidod Jo uolsiAold ‘sdoys a10W 10
OUO je paTyejsut Apeolye St wW93sAs
AZo[OUYDI |, UOTJULIOJUT MOU 9} JI
‘doys yord Jo sassao0ld poloj|stdso1
[[@ JO Joquinu 9y}3 WWM YWOdaI

pue doys 94} Jo amjord & YIM
yodal pue JUdUID}e}S S JOMOLIOG

surjd Jo a[dures 29 (jenueyy
[euoneiodyg yolorg oy} WIM
DouKpIODR UT pajesoqeys) sue,d
WOTIOV JUSUITO}JVI-OIOTJI JO IST
‘Opvjsy Op [v1IIYO

OLADIC[ 9U} Ul poysiiqnd s}oenuos
oidures pue suojepossy ot}
YIM POUBIS syUDWIDOISe YIM JST]

WOT} EULIOJUT JO
IIANOS /MONVIYLIIA IO} [090}0.1g

T0Z 92
L

IOMOUICIT
AdI[Og
Wad
912819 94} 3
uTYsT[qeiso
MPT 9181S

OJOBISTIVS
punoj
yIOMIWTLL]
ou) 3
UTYsT]qeyso
UOTIN[OSIY

-“LC-

que
oy} Xq
poaoidde

ayy Aq
Jo}oejsyes
punoj ¥
JOMOWPBI
Aatjod

yIOM
® JO JUS
wryst{qeyso
oy}

JO} Japso
[eIOUJO

juaudojaaag joany ajqouimjsns

107 sny
9

$]93.18 J, JUMIISANGSIG

DL0C 92 107 sny T0z 99 pl0Z snyv
Ss Pv t C

$193.18], puv sulaseg — (s]’J[q) $10}¥dIPU] poyury] JUeMasS.NngsIg

S PINGHYAOS

3
INSvITA|
Jo yma)

ylomourely AdTOg

(Wad)

yusWUas vue

Ysty Joysesiq 9381S
JO JUOWUTYST[GeIS Hy

(QATyeTNUINd)

poyjeisur

SOOIAIOS SUISUDOT]
eyusUTUOITAUD

0} ssaoor

Joy sdoys dojs suo
[euoIsa1 Jo IOquUINN,

SATE NUNS

poyeroge]s sued
uoT}OR JUSUTYDIeO
-OIDTJ JO JOquINN

(sayemumMd)

poouruy 9q 0) pue
poaoidde sjesodoid
ssoutsng Jo Jaquinyy

S10} VIIPU] PoyUTy]
JUIMTIS.ANGSIG

 
“Q7¢-

                
               

  

enue Ul poAOTAUIa sIayoe9} JO
Joquinu dy} Jo aseyusoIod v se suns
0} Arenuer snoradid ay} us9M30q
‘uorjedrioipred Suruted $ Joyoeey

dU} JO UONOTJLIOA 3Jsnsny

Ul SULLINDDO SyUSTUASINGSIp

JOJ ‘s}st] uotedroryred

suluied pue jjorAed ay} Jod se Ajne
Ul paAoTdus sisyoeRd} Jo Joquinu
oY} JO aseJUI0IOd vB Se JoquIs90q]
pue Ajng snotaoid oy} u99M10q
‘uonediored SuTUTe]} Ss .JoyoR9}
dU} JO UONCSIFIIOA :ALVN.AGI |
UI BULLINDSO SJUSUASINGSIP 10]

%06 -

}
UdUISSOSse
puosas

jo s}[nsar
jo uoly
BUTWUOSSIG]
pue u
oneolyqnd

uoUUssosse
SITY

JO s}nsoz
jo uo

       

‘uoneorqnd pur yioday
UOIRUTUASSIGG pue UOTIBOTTQng
‘JUDUUSSISSE

dU} JO “939 ‘s}[Nsal ‘syuapnis
‘sjooyos Jo Joquinu Surpnyjoul
CAs woy yoday :sjusulssassy

           

‘no
poures ju
SUISsossy
PATYL

BUTLUIOSSIC]

‘jNO poLues pue u

yUoUISsassy | oTeol|qng
puosas

  

938e]
%S8 %08 %O8 | Wasdod
}

‘no "no

poles ju | poles yw

sussassy | oWISsossy
$S4I }0['d XO]

sutured],
JOYOeI J, DOIAIOS
-UI 199d-0}-199g
ul sutjedrorsed
SIDYORI |,

 

   

‘Teuotjye1odo
wId}shg JUSWISSOSSY
SUTULIvS] JUSpNIS

.

 

uoyvonpy

 

yusuNnsop 94} Jo Adog :10Y [esaT
SJomowely AdOg

 
 

 

$}2 a L Fitidsanqsid

 

ODI] S
JOMOLIOG uo
OU} Uy] wader

Peeriare
oy} Aq wisesiq

HOREMLIOsI 30 toz qe nto any) rt0z qe t07' any re ea) poe any mp 4
JIINOS /MOHBVIIJLIIA IOF [09030
MOBBIYLIGA 10} 1090}0.1g jou

$.10}8dIPUy PIxUH]
yUSTUIS.INGsIg

 
-6C7

      

   
  

                  

UOT eJUSWIA[ AW] :/ JUOUISsINgsIq
‘yoday :9 yuowosInasiq, {yoday

yipny [[o1Aeg ‘p JUoWAsINgsiq
“SYOT :7 Juowosingsiq

[jorAed
poyeuroyne
ue Jo uoTjye
yuows|dwy

PoJs[auI0S
yoda
ypne
[Jo1Aeg
JUIWMIBDUDI] AOJIAY I11QNq) PIUYISISSP JOIIUYIAT

98}
“IVLVNHad-SIS %98 %S8 MPs %C8 %C8 | le

988}
%0S %OVv %OE SI %OI il
1o/pue pojep[Iqeyoy

‘PpoUstuy are SyJOM 3Y} Seorpul
0} yOOWTOIe oy) pue AueduIOd ou) YIM
DJBOTJTHIO B YIM Pojyo[Culo0d syJOM Jo
‘Suotsuedxe Jo/pue uOneTTqeyoy Ove 00€ S0¢ 09 $8 OS | quinn STOOYSS 281

"S}SI]T UOTJeAIOTyIeC
suTUTeI] pue [[o1Aed ou} Jod
WOeULIO;UI Jo me qe ms sny a qe me ony me qo rine ony mseayy $10}¥oIpUy payuy
JIANOS /MONBITLIIA 1OJ [090}0.1
/AOTBITFLA F [090}0.1g joqug

Sjod1v a Nisa JUITTIS.ANG SIG

syipne
[jorAed 10}

         

JUSTUISCURU [[OIARC
S YOURIG SATINIOXA

S JOMOLIOg 9)
jJO UONSZIUIDpOp]

  

                 

   

       
 
 

d0UdIOJOI
JOSULIOT, | 1X9]

 

    
       

sdn-yooyo [eyeu-ajue
L wey} d10U popuaye
OyM USUIOM
yueusoid 0} syyiq
SAT] JO uoTpodolg

     

JIOMION se9yIeay
eulojey] pue jueyuy
S JaMOLIOg dt} Jo
wed st jeu) jeqidsoy

        

B 0} S}IUN aed

Arevutid Aq poLajor

“UId}SAS UOTJPWOJU] suor}eotfdwios

[eudsoy pue wajshg uoTeUWLIOJUy] jo ysu

  

 

Ysty YIM polyyuopt
udsWIOM JUeUsOId
jo a8eUD0I9g

(CIVLVNAad SIS)Teveu
-O1q :SWId}SAS OM} SUTMOTIOF
oy) Woy eyep saseduroo yey} yoday

     
 

 

 

(SaTtye[nuNd)
popuedxo

        
-O ¢-

sTqeorede
jty
UdWIIIIBV
SIU} 01 Z
anpoeyos
J9 Ii
UO0T}9D9S Ul

           
       

                   

                                

   
             

          
  

pouljop s
x i sinpsso1d yueg
JO1]UOD Yyim 9 ou Aq

  

              

     

                               

       

        

    
      

          

      

  
   

     

    

  

JeuIoyUT ouepiosoe | poaoidde

JO} § poten ul polity | sampoooid

dINPId01q poidope JomUOS | spots pue

syiodal Suturely, :/ pue JO1yUOS euro} UI Jorju0D spoujoul

JUSWSSINGSIGG ‘UOTNJOSoI [eUJoyUT | == SpoyJoj jeuisyut JO} S [euI9juy] jomUCS

JO 99199q] :9 yUoWASINsIq ‘Wodsy MOU JO} S eae jo yuo yeusoyur

yeiq :p yuawosingsiq ‘oenuog | Ul pouren | simpsooid wido][aAop jow SUId}SAS

jUR][NSUOD :¢ JUOWASINGSIq | sJOVpNy pue spoujat Joy | suidoysasp JoUOZD [eUIO}UT | I
‘SYOL :7 Juoulosinqsiq jeuloyuy | spouses yeig | weynsuog | Joy sSYOL jo suuoyjsuans | |

yueg ou} 0}
atqeidacoe
eV

poy] duos
so

       

    

   

    

 
 
  

InyIpusdxe
‘IoJOes | ouuosiod
yyeoy IDAO
3U} IO} paz SToUOS a a1
TTeIyUD0Op mewn Ee ay) Aq
yoday pue poaoidde

woHeULIOsUT Jo 10¢ 49 (roe say) y me qe m sn me qo re ony $10}¥91pUy peyxuyy
IIANOS /MONVIYLIIA IO} [090}01g b jUSTTIS.ANGsSig

s}aa ie L sasHsTAGNG

 

 
-[¢€-

 

  

s[qeorade
Jt
UWdWIdSISV
SIY} 01 Z
a[npeyos
JO Hl
UOT}N9S JO
SUOTSIAOId
YUM 9

    
                                            

         

                

ye
oy} Aq
poaoidde

                        

sossa00id
UOT}D9T [OO

       

           

                              

           
            

                                   

           

                            

                  

                  

                     
                      

     

    

          

         

  

   
   

   
                         

  

                               

                          

                      

                     

                  

            

   
   
  
  

xe} | OURpIOsOR | sassa00id
uel uoNdV uO yurg 9U} 0} | JO UOTSTAdI UI | UOTJDOT[OO
pyroday ssoisolg :/ yuowasingsiq yueg yueg | o][qeidosoe oy} | sassadoid XP}
‘Ue UOT}OY UO LOdsy ssaIso1g dq} 0} dU} 0} sassaooid JO] Ue] g | UWON9T]OO | Jo UOISTASI
:Q JUSWOSINGSIq UL[_g uONdY | s1qQeIds00R | a[quidadoR | uOTjdaTTOO uoljoy Xe} IO} s
:¢ UoWAsSIMsIq ‘Hoday ssoIso1g ued ueIid XB] | YeIp pue | JO UOTSIADI | jJUR}NSUOD
‘p JUoWOSINGsIg ‘joRIyWO?D uoloy UOT]OV | JO UOISTADI yoday SU} 1OJ IO} sossoooi1d
yuRI[NSUOD :¢ JUSWESINGSsIq | uo woOdsy | UO Oday | 94} IOF Ue[g ssoIdOlg | Juel[nsuoD | syoy, jou yustusseueul | ¢
SYOL :Z Juowasmasiq SSOIBOIg SSOISOIg uoT}OV | JURITNsSUOD ; Jo sULTIY,; ONeIedaIg!] xa] XB] JO UOISIADY | |
yur
9U} OF que
aqeidasoe 9U} 0}
syodal uorenyeas yoedut Jouueul | a[qeidaoor
[eULy :{ yUoWAsIngsiq ‘souroojno B UI pa Jouueul
ASAIMS UO WOdsy :g JUSWIAsIMQsIq] | JeUTWSSIp eB Ul SdHq omy
‘syiodal uoljenyead joeduy 3 | pojortduros 0} poyelor
:¢ JusWEsINgsIq ‘sods suTjaseg | poyetduios | uoTjenyeas | payayduroo uoljenj[ead
'p Juowasingsiq ‘esodoig syodo1 | yeduit 9} syoda1 yoeduul ue Sdaa ie suryeul-Adtjog
YUM Woday :¢ JusuasIngsiq | UONenyeas | eIpouLiayul | uoTeNyeAd | pojyofduiod | jo usIsep | Joy sowey poseq-souspiAgq
soulely yoeduml | Jo sAdAmns yoedull 9 syiodal OY} 10J SO] JO U Joy Aytoedes | Z
30[ YUM Yodsy :7 yusWISsINGSIG yeury | dn-moyjo,y | yerpounojuy suljoseg esodoig | oneredaig }XOT | 97819 SuTUDUsUaTIS | |

 
 

$}95.18 J] JUITIIS.INGSIG

woneuLroyuT Jo 10Z G24) | 107 8ny) | Or0z 9 10z sny) | (ST0z G94) | (FOZ SnV mp s10)891puy poyuy
JIINOS /MOHVIYLIOA 10J [090J01g L 9 s P t ¢ jo my JOITIOS.INGSIG

  

 
APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

l.

10.

«A GUASPARANA” means Instituto das Aguas do Paranda, the Borrower’s Water
Institute established pursuant to the Borrower’s Law Number 16.242, dated October
13, 2009, or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and
Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.

“Association” means an association or other form of legal organization of a group of
farmers or producers eligible to receive a Grant under Parts 1(a) (iii) and (b) (111) (B)
of the Project respectively.

“Budget Execution Rule” means the amount of budget execution required for all
disbursements of Loan proceeds under Category (1) other than the first, second,
seventh and eighth application for withdrawal and consisting of:

(a) a minimum of 70% of each of the EEP budgets spent during the twelve (12)
month period of the calendar year prior to the February date in which the
withdrawal is made as specified in Schedule 4 of this Agreement; and

(b) a minimum of 30% of each of the EEP budgets spent during the first six
months of the calendar year in which the August withdrawal referred to in

Schedule 4 to this Agreement is made;

all as set forth in the Project Operational Manual and the additional instructions
referred to in Section IV.A.1 of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement.

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.

“Central Region” means the Borrower’s region comprised by approximately 131
municipalities, as specified in the Project Operational Manual.

“Civil Defense” means Casa Militar-Defesa Civil, the Borrower’s office of civil
defense within its Presidency, or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.

“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” dated January 2011.

“Disbursement-Linked Indicator” or “DLI’ means any of the indicators set forth in
Schedule 5 of this Agreement.

“DLI Formula” means the formula consisting of the total number of DLIs complied,
divided by the total number of DLIs.

-32-

 
 

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

‘““EEP Spending Report” means any report prepared by the Borrower in accordance
with the Project Operational Manual and referred to in Section I.C.1 of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement on the spending status of the Eligible Expenditures Programs under
Part 1 of the Project.

“Eligible Expenditure Program” or “EEP” means a set of defined investment and
recurrent expenditures (including works, goods, non-consulting services, consultants’
services, Operating Costs, and Grants, incurred by the Borrower under the budget
codes set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement (and thus said set of expenditures
constitute a subset of the Eligible Expenditures defined in the General Conditions).

“EMATER” means /nstituto Paranaense de Assitencia Técnica e Extensdo Rural-
EMATER, the Borrorower’s agency for rural technical assistance and extension
established pursuant to the Borrower’s law No. 6969 dated December 26, 1977 as
modified as an autonomous entity (autarquia) pursuant to the Borrower’s Law No.
14.832, dated September 22, 2005, or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.

“Environmental Management Framework” or “EMF” means the framework prepared
by the Borrower, acceptable to the Bank, dated January, 2012, published and available
to the public on February 9, 2012 at www.sepl.pr.gov.br, which sets out the
environmental protection measures in respect of the Project, including: (a) the
guidelines to be followed in connection with the finding of cultural property; (b) the
guidelines for the carrying out of environmental assessments under the Project and the
preparation of the pertinent EMPs; (c) the guidelines to address impacts on natural
habitats (screening of selected activities and sustainable management of affected
preservation areas to improve natural habitats); and (d) the guidelines for pest
management and to address any impact on forests); and (e) the procedures for the
environmental supervision, monitoring and evaluation of the Project, as such

- framework may be amended from time to time with prior written agreement of the

Bank.

“Environmental Management Plan”or “EMP” means any plan prepared by the
Borrower and approved by the Bank, as the same may be amended from time to time
with the prior written agreement of the Bank.

“Execution Coefficient” means the applicable coefficient to be used in the application
of the Budget Execution Rule to calculate the amount eligible for disbursement for
each withdrawal application under Category (1) other than the first, second, seventh
and eighth application for withdrawal depending on the very low, low or satisfactory
ranking achieved as per the respective EEPs’ budget amount spent, as set forth in the
Project Operational Manual and the additional instructions referred to in Section
IV.A.1 of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated March 12, 2012.

“Grant” means the non-reimbursable financing made available to an Association,
Producer Association or Municipality to finance the cost of goods, works,

-33-
19.

20.

21.

22.

23.

24.

25.

26.

27.

consultants’ services and Operating Costs, as the case may be, of activities
implemented by such Associations, Producer Association or Municipalities.

‘Health Service Provider” means a legally established hospital eligible to provide
health services under Parts 1.4(a)(v) and 2.8 (c) of the Project as per the requirements
of the Project Operational Manual.

“TAP” means Instituto Ambiental do Parana, the Borrower’s Environmental Institute
established by the Borrower’s Law No. 10.066 dated July 27, 1992 as amended by
the Borrower’s Law No. 11.352 dated February 13, 1996 or any successor thereto
acceptable to the Bank.

“Implementation Agreement” means any of the agreements to be entered into
pursuant to the provisions of Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework” or “IPPF” means the framework prepared
by the Borrower, acceptable to the Bank, dated April, 2012 and published and
available to the public on April 19, 2012 at www.sepl.pr.gov.br, which sets out the
procedures to be followed during the implementation of the Project to address any
impact on indigenous peoples and Quilombolas in the Borrower’s territory including
the culturally appropriate measures to be implemented; (b) the requirement for
preparation Indigenous Peoples Plans as per the terms of the IPPF; and (c) the
monitoring requirements; as such framework may be amended from time to time with
prior written agreement of the Bank.

“Indigenous Peoples Plans or “IPP” means any plan prepared by the Borrower in
accordance with the IPPF and approved by the Bank, as the same may be amended
from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank.

“Involuntary Resettlement Framework” or “RF” means the framework prepared by
the Borrower, acceptable to the Bank, dated April, 2012 and published and available
to the public on April 19, 2012 at www.sepl.pr.gov.br, which sets out: (a) the
procedures to be followed during the implementation of the Project to address any
Resettlement; (b) the requirement for preparation of Resettlement Plans as per the
terms of the RF; and (c) the monitoring of any Resettlement under the Project; as
such framework may be amended from time to time with prior written agreement of
the Bank.

‘ITCG’means Instituto de Terras, Cartografia e Geociencias, the Borrower’s
Institute of Lands, Cartography and Geoscience, established pursuant to Lei n°
14889, dated November 4, 2005, or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.

“Municipality” means any Municipality or groups of muncipalities located in the
Borrower’s territory participating in Parts 1.1 (a) (ii) (C), 1.1(b), 1.1 (aii) (B), 1.3 (©),

and 1.4 of the Project under the terms of an Implementation Agreement.

“Participating Entity’ means any Project Agency, Municipality, Health Service
Provider or Association.

-34-

 
 

28.

29.

30.

31.

32.

33.

34.

35,

36.

37,

38.

39.

40.

“PCU” or “Project Coordination Unit” means Unidade de Implementagao do Projeto,
the unit referred to in Section I. A.1 (a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Performance Indicators” means the Project monitoring and evaluation indicators set
forth in the Project Operational Manual.

“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and
Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World
Bank Borrower’s” dated January 2011.

“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, dated
September 5, 2012 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines
and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from
time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.

“Producer Association” means a an association, cooperative or other legally
established form of organization of rural producers eligible for participation in Part
1.1 (b) (iii) (C) of the Project as per the terms of the Project Operational Manual.

“Project Agency” means collectivelly IAP, EMATER, AGUASPARANA and ITCG.

“Project Management Committee” means the committee referred to in Section I.A.1
(b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Project Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section LF.1 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time with
the prior written agreement of the Bank.

“Project Secretariats” means collectivelly Civil Defense SEED, SEPL, SEFA, SEAP,
SEAB, SEMA and SESA.

“Project Sector” means any of the following sectors of the Borrower; Sustainable
Rural Development, Environmental and Disaster Risk Management, Education and
Health, as per the codes set forth in the table on Schedule 4 of this Agreement.

“Quilombola” means any community of African descendants living in the Borrower’s
territory and recognized as such by the Guarantor.

“R$” means Brazilian Reais, the Borrower’s currency.

“Resettlement” means the impact of: (i) an involuntary taking of land under the
Project, which taking causes affected persons to have their: (a) income source or
means of livelihood adversely affected (whether or not the affected persons must
move to another location); or (b) right, title or interest in any house, land (including
premises, agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset acquired
or possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (c) access to productive assets adversely
affected, temporarily or permanently; or (d) business, occupation, work or place of
residence or habitat adversely affected, temporarily or permanently; or (ii) an
involuntary restriction of access to natural resources in legally designated parks and

-35-
41.

42.

43.

44.

45.

46.

47.

48.

49.

protected areas (including reserves) which causes an adverse impact on the
livelihoods of the affected persons.

“Resettlement Plan” or “RP” means any plan prepared following the requirements of
the Involuntary Resettlement Framework and approved by the Bank, as the same may
be amended from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank.

“Safeguards Documents” means the Environmental Management Framework, the
Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework, and the Involuntary Resettlement
Framework, and any EMP, RP, or IPP prepared by the Borrower and approved by the
Bank.

“SEAB” means Secretaria de Estado da Agricultura e do Abastecimento, the
Borrower’s secretariat of Agriculture and Supplies, or its sucessor or sucessors
thereto acceptable to the Bank.

“SEAP” means Secretaria de Estado da Administracdo e Previdéncia the Borrower’s
secretariat of Administration and Social Security, or its sucessor or sucessors thereto
acceptable to the Bank.

“SEED” means Secretaria de Estado da Educagdo, the Borrower’s secretariat of
Education, or its sucessor or sucessors thereto acceptable to the Bank.

“SEFA” means Secretaria de Estado da Fazenda, the Borrower’s secretariat of
Finance or its sucessor or sucessors thereto acceptable to the Bank.

“SEMA” means Secretaria de Estado do Meio Ambiente e Recursos Hidricos, the
Borrower’s secretariat of Environement and Water Resources, or its sucessor or
sucessors thereto acceptable to the Bank.

“SEPL” means Secretaria de Estado do Planejamento e Coordenagdo Geral, the
Borrower’s secretariat of Planning and General Coordination, or its sucessor or

sucessors thereto acceptable to the Bank.

“SESA” means Secretaria de Estado da Saude, the Borrower’s secretariat of Health,
or its sucessor or sucessors thereto acceptable to the Bank.

-36-

 
