Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

OFFICIAL _
DOCUMENTS !

ee
ew,»

 

 

 

LOAN NUMBER 8244-TR

Loan Agreement

(Small and Medium Enterprises Energy Efficiency Project)

between

TURKIYE CUMHURIYETI ZIRAAT BANKASI A.S.
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated Hoy G , 2013

 

 
LOAN AGREEMENT |
Agreement dated Hay 6 , 2013, between TURKIYE

CUMHURIYETI ZIRAAT BANKASI A.S.  (“Borrower” or “Ziraatbank) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(“Bank”). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:

1.01.

1.02.

2.01.

2.02.

2.03.

2.04,

2.05.

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

Uniess the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.

ARTICLE II — LOAN

The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of sixty-seven million Dollars
($67,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this
Agreement (‘‘Loan”), to assist in financing its Respective Part of the Project
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”).

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee
not later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date.

The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
ihe Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article [V of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by
the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(e) of the
General Conditions.

The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year.
2.06.

2.07,

2.08.

3,02.

4.01.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

(a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; and (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa: or
(B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread.

(b) Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.

Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 of this
Agreement and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in
accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate
basis applicable to the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during
each Interest Period shall be changed from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed
Rate for the full maturity of such amount in accordance with the provisions of
Article TV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.

ARTICLE HI — PROJECT

The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall carry out its Respective Part of the Project in accordance
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.

Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower, the Guarantor and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall ensure that its Respective Part of the Project is carried out in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:

-2.
4.02.

4.03.

(a) The Borrower shall have adopted the Operational Manual.

(b) The Co-financing Agreement has been executed and delivered and all
conditions precedent to its effectiveness (other than the effectiveness of
this Agreement) have been fulfilled.

The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely, the Co-financing
Agreement has been duly authorized by the Borrower and is legally binding upon
the Borrower in accordance with its terms.

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.

ARTICLE V -——- REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
The Borrower’s Representative is the Director General of the Borrower.
The Borrower’s Address is:
Turkiye Cumhuriyeti Ziraat Bankasi A.S
Doganbey Mahallesi
Ataturk Bulvari No. 8
Altindag, Ankara,
Turkey
Facsimile:
(90-312) 310-14-71
The Bank’s Address is:

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

(inited States of America

Cable address: Telex: facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 248423(MCD or 1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C, 64145(MCI

-3-
AGREED at Ankara, Republic of Turkey, as of the day and year first above written.

TURKIYE CUMHURIYETI ZIRAAT
BANKASI AS.

ce yy Dyabeg

By

  
 

d Representative

   
  

 

Name:

Title:

By

 

Authorized Representative

Name: Balep any Kaur

Title:

Cette ade

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

» [Lh fo

Authorized Representative

Name: Haein. Ras ig
Title: Preector

-4.
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description

The objective of the Project is to improve the efficiency of energy use in small
and medium enterprises in the Republic of Turkey, by scaling-up commercial bank
lending for energy efficiency investments.

The Project consists of the following parts:

Part A: Credit Line to Halkbank

I, The establishment and operation of a credit facility within Halkbank for the
financing of Sub-projects through the provision of Sub-loans by Halkbank to Sub-project
Sponsors to finance the cost of carrying out Sub-projects.

2. The establishment of a loan loss reserve fund within Halkbank to assist in
defraying risks associated with new energy efficiency loan products and in addressing
SME collateral requirements.

3. Enhancement of the capacity of Halkbank to implement this Part A of the
Project.

Part B: Credit Line to Vakifbank

1. The establishment and operation of a credit facility within Vakifbank for the
financing of Sub-projects through the provision of Sub-loans by Vakifbank to Sub-
project Sponsors to finance the cost of carrying out Sub-projects.

2. The establishment of a loan loss reserve fund within Vakifbank to assist in
defraying risks associated with new energy efficiency loan products and in addressing
SME collateral requirements.

3, Enhancement of the capacity of Vakifbank to implement this Part B of the
Project.

Part C: Credit Line to Ziraatbank

1, The establishment and operation of a credit facility within Ziraatbank for the
financing of Sub-projects through the provision of Sub-loans by Ziraatbank to Sub-
project Sponsors to finance the cost of carrying out Sub-projects.

 

2. The establishment of a loan loss reserve fund within Ziraatbank to assist in
defraying risks associated with new energy efficiency loan products and in addressing
SME collateral requirements.

-5.
3. Enhancement of the capacity of Ziraatbank to implement this Part C of the
Project.

Energy Effici Policy and Project M: ent Support to ?

1, Enhancement of the enabling environment for, and the fostering of, broader
energy efficiency market development in the Republic of Turkey through, inter alia, the
following activities to be carried out by MENR:

(a) Market development and information dissemination, including:
(i) raising awareness of, and providing training and disseminating information on,
opportunities for energy efficiency and the success of schemes used in the credit lines
established under the Project; (ii) carrying out market studies and assessments and
developing options for future investment programs beyond the SME market; and
(iti) establishing a dialogue with stakeholders.

(b) Strengthening of the energy efficiency and regulatory regimes, including
carrying out: (i) reviews of energy efficiency policies and developing recommendations
for improvement especially in the SME sector; reviews of energy efficiency incentive and
informational programs (including impact assessments) and developing recommendations
to improve utilization and impact of those programs; and reviews of institutional
arrangements to strengthen the energy efficiency policy and implementation function in
all sectors; and (ii) staff training.

2. Support MENR’s management of activities under this Part D of the Project.
SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Section I. Implementation Arrangements

A.

I.

Institutional and Other Arrangements

Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall Carry out the
following to the satisfaction of the Bank: maintain until the completion of its
Respective Part of the Project, the PIU and ensure that the PIU functions at all
times in a manner and with staffing and budgetary resources necessary and
appropriate for implementation of its Respective Part of the Project.

The Borrower shall maintain the Operational Manual in form and content
satisfactory to the Bank, shall duly perform all its obligations under the
Operational Manual and shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Operational Manual without obtaining the prior approval of the Bank.

The Borrower shall, throughout the implementation of its Respective Part of the
Project, comply with the applicable prudential regulations of the Guarantor.

The Borrower shall ensure that its Respective Part of the Project is carried out in
accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.

For the purposes of carrying out its Respective Part of the Project, the Borrower
shall:

(a) Make Sub-loans to Sub-project Sponsors on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Operational Manual, including, without limitation, the terms and
conditions set forth in Section 1B of this Schedule 2.

(b) Exercise tts rights in relation to each such Sub-loan in such manner as to
protect its interests and the interests of the Guarantor and the Bank.

fc) Appraise Sub-projects and supervise, monitor and report on the Carrying
out by the Sub-project Sponsors of Sub-projects, in accordance with the
Operational Manual.

(d) Ensure that each Sub-project shall comply with environmental and social
safeguard review set forth in the Operational Manual, as well as with the
Environmental Policy Framework.
lod

(e) Ensure that:

(3) not more than twenty percent (20%) of the Loan proceeds shall
be made available, through Sub-loans to Sub-project Sponsors
that are Mid-cap Companies; and

(ii) not more than twenty percent (20%) of the Loan proceeds shall
be made available, through Sub-loans to Sub-project Sponsors
that are Leasing Companies, which are Subsidiaries of the
Borrower, For purposes of this sub-paragraph 5(e), “Subsidiary”
means a company or entity in which the Borrower has equity or
other interest as so defined under the Guarantor’s banking
legislation; and “Subsidiaries” means the aggregate of all such
Subsidiary.

(f) Upon Committing fifty percent (50%) of the Loan: (i) use its own funds
(that is, other than Loan proceeds) to finance Sub-projects, which shall be
appraised, selected and supervised in accordance with the Operational Manual:
and (ii) ensure that by the Closing Date, the aggregate of such financing shall be
equivalent to at least twenty-five percent (25%) of the Loan. For purposes of
this sub-paragraph 5(f), “Committing” means the Borrower has entered into
written contracts with Sub-project Sponsors in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 9 of Section I.B of this Schedule.

(g) Until the Closing Date, utilize all payments made by a Sub-project
Sponsor under a Sub-loan to finance additional Sub-projects on the same terms
and conditions set out forth in Section 1.B of this Schedule 2.

Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans

Terms

wach Sub-loan shall be charged interest, on the principal amount thereof
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at such a rate as may be
determined by the Borrower on the basis of its assessment of market conditions
and risk management.

Each Sub-loan to: (a) a Sub-project Sponsor that is a SME shall not exceed
$3,500,000; and (b)a Sub-project Sponsor that is a Mid-Cap Company, a
Leasing Company or an ESCO shall not exceed $5,000,000.

Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the aggregate principal amount under
multiple Sub-loans made by the Borrower to any of the following and its
affiliates shall not exceed $10,000,000 equivalent: (a) a Sub-project Sponsor that

+e
aA

is a SME or Mid-cap Company; and (b) a beneficiary of a Sub-project Sponsor
that is an ESCO or a Leasing Company.

No expenditures for a Sub-project shall be eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Loan unless such expenditures shall have been made not earlier
than three hundred and sixty (360) days prior to the date on which the Borrower
shall have received the application from any Sub-project Sponsor and any
information required under paragraph 5 of Section LB of this Schedule in respect
of such Sub-loan, but in any case not earlier than on or before April 16, 2012.

Approval procedures
Each Sub-loan shall be approved on the basis of:

(a) a description of the Sub-project Sponsor and an appraisal of the Sub-
project, including a description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan;

(b) the proposed terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the
schedule of amortization of the Sub-loan;

(c) a business plan incorporating a development plan which shall be
evaluated by the Borrower in accordance with established guidelines for sub-
project and credit evaluation set forth in the Operational Manual;

(d} evidence of compliance with the Operational Manual and with the
Environmental Policy Framework; and

(e) such other information as the Bank or the Borrower shall reasonably
request,

Unless otherwise agreed with the Bank, the following Sub-loans shall not be
approved without the Bank’s prior approval:

(a) first two (2) Sub-loans to Sub-project Sponsors that are SMEs and first
two (2) Sub-loans to Sub-project Sponsors that are Mid-Cap Companies;

(b) each Sub-loan to a Sub-project Sponsor that is a Leasing Company or an
ESCO; and

(c) each Sub-project that will be supported with proceeds from the Co-
financing Agreement.
Sub-project Sponsor Eligibility

Each Sub-loan shall be made to a Sub-project Sponsor only if it has established,
to the satisfaction of the Borrower, that the following have been satisfied and
shall be maintained during the duration of the its respective Sub-loan:

(a) It is: (it) a SME; (ii) a Mid-Cap Company; (iii) a Leasing Company or
(iv) an ESCO.

(b) It is a Private Enterprise. For purposes of this sub-paragraph 7(b), a
Private Enterprise is an enterprise where more than fifty percent (50%) of the
shares or other equity interest thereof is held by persons or companies other than
the Guarantor, any agency or subdivision thereof, or any focal governmental
authority, or entities controlled by the Guarantor or such agencies or
subdivisions;

(c) It has a satisfactory financial structure and the organization,
management, staff and financial and other resources required for the efficient
carrying out of its operations, including the carrying out of the Sub-project.

(d) It promotes undertaking an investment, financing and/or consultancy
aimed at increasing energy efficiency, or decreasing energy consumption, of
operations,

(e) It has a certificate from the relevant local or national authorities of the
Guarantor about compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations
of the Guarantor.

Sub-project Eligibility

Unless otherwise agreed between the Bank and the Borrower, a Sub-loan shall be
made for a Sub-project which is determined, on the basis of an appraisal carried
out in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank:

(a) to be technically feasible and economically, financially and
commercially viable;

(b) to be targeted to energy efficiency improvements that (i) reduce a
technical system's energy intensity (energy per unit of output) by at least twenty
percent (20%), or (ii) generate at least fifty percent (50%) of financial benefits
from energy cost savings;

(c) to generate a financial rate of return of at least eight percent (8%);

(d) to be in compliance with all requirements pertaining to environmental
protection applicable under the laws and regulations of the Guarantor and with

-10-

FEO I ee Ee Ra en ven
the Environmental Policy Framework. To that end, the Borrower shall require
each Sub-project Sponsor applying for a Sub-loan to furnish evidence
satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower, showing that the Sub-project in
respect of which the application has been made, has been prepared in accordance
with such procedures, such evidence to include, inter alia, an environmental
management plan prepared in accordance with the requirements of the
Environmental Policy Framework for a Sub-project submitted for approval;

(e) not to be supporting or include any of the Excluded Activities;

(f) to be located in any of the following river basins in the event that the
Sub-project activity entails potential use of or discharge into waterways:
Susurluk, North Aegean, Gediz, Kuguk Menderes, Buyuk Menderes, Western
Mediterranean, Antalya, Sakarya, Western Black Sea, Yesilirmak, Kizilirmak,
Konya Kapali, Eastern Mediterranean, Seyhan, Ceyhan, Eastern Black Sea,
Burdur, Afyon, Orta Anadolu and Van; and

(g) with respect to a Sub-project being proposed by a Sub-project Sponsor
that is a Leasing Company or an ESCO, the beneficiary of the Sub-projects shall
have satisfied the criteria set out in sub-paragraphs 7(b) through 7(e).

Written Contract

A Sub-loan shall be made on further conditions whereby the Borrower shall
obtain, by written contract with the Sub-project Sponsor or by other appropriate
legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the Guarantor, the Bank
and the Borrower, including the right to:

(a) Require the Sub-project Sponsor to carry out and operate the facilities
financed under the Sub-project with due diligence and efficiency and in
accordance with sound technical, financial and managerial standards, and in
accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to
recipients of loan proceeds other than the Borrower, and to maintain adequate
records.

(b) Without limitation to the generality of the provisions of the preceding
paragraph (a), require the Sub-project Sponsor to carry out and operate the Sub-
project with due regard to applicable social impact, ecological, environmental
and pollution control standards and in accordance with the provisions of the
Operational Manual.

{c) For any Sub-project which needs an environmental management pian,
require the Sub-project Sponsor to carry out such plan in a timely manner.

~||-
(d) Require that: (i) the goods, works, non-consulting services and
consultants’ services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Sub-loan shall be
procured in accordance with the provisions of Section III of this Schedule; and
(ii} use such goods, works, and services exclusively in the carrying out of the
Sub-project.

(e) Inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank or the
Guarantor, if the Bank or the Guarantor shall so request, such goods and the sites,
works, plants and construction included in the Sub-project, the operation thereof,
and any relevant records and documents.

(f) Require that the Sub-project Sponsor shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as
shall be consistent with sound business practice; and without any limitation upon
the foregoing, such insurance shail cover hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Sub-loan
to the place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable
in a currency freely usable by the Sub-project Sponsor to replace or repair such
goods.

(g) Obtain all such information as the Bank or the Borrower shall reasonably
request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and
financial condition of the Sub-project Sponsor and to the benefits to be derived
from the Sub-project.

(h) Require that the Sub-project Sponsor not incur any debt unless a
reasonable forecast of its revenues and expenditures shows that its estimated cash
flow for each fiscal year during the term of the debt to be incurred shall be at
least 1.2 times its estimated debt service requirements in such year on all its debt,
including the debt to be incurred; and:

(i) the term “debt” means any indebtedness of the Sub-project
Sponsor;

(ii) debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or
agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or for the
modification of its terms of payment, on the date of such
contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee
agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such
guarantee has been entered into;

(iii) the term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate

amount of repayments of, and interest and other charges on,
debt;

«-|2-
(iv) the term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast prepared by the
Sub-project Sponsor not earlier than twelve months prior to the
incurrence of the debt in question, which both the Bank, the
Borrower and the Sub-project Sponsor accept as reasonable and
as to which the Bank has notified the Borrower and Sub-project
Sponsor of its acceptability, provided that no event has occurred
since such notification which has, or may reasonably be expected
in the future to have, a material adverse effect on the financial
condition or future operating results of the Sub-project Sponsor;
and

(v) whenever for the purposes of this sub-paragraph 9(h) it shall be
necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the Guarantor,
debt payable in another currency, such valuation shall be made
on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which
such other currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable
for the purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such
rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.

(i) With respect to a Sub-project Sponsor that is an ESCO or a Leasing
Company, require that such Sub-project Sponsor obtains, by written
contract or other legal means, rights to ensure that the beneficiary of the
Sub-project carries out the Sub-project in accordance with the provisions
of the Operational Manual.

(j) Suspend and terminate the right of the Sub-project Sponsor to the use of
the proceeds of the Sub-loan upon failure by such Sub-project Sponsor to
perform its obligations under its contract with the Borrower.

Section H. Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

A.

t.

Project Reports

(a) The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of its Respective
Part of the Project (including progress in implementation of the Environmental
Policy Framework and plans prepared in accordance with said framework and
accepted by the Bank) and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the
provistons of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of
indicators agreed with the Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the period of
one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five
(45) days after the end of the period covered by such report.

(b) Without limitation on the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) above, the

Borrower shall list, in the Project Report, basic information relating to each Sub-
project approved for financing under its Respective Part of the Project, including

-]3-
the location and nature of the Sub-project, energy savings expected/monitored of
the investment, and the date on which Sub-project activities began and were
completed. Additionally, the Borrower agrees that the Bank may disclose the
foregoing information to the public.

B. Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits

1. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions, :

2. Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall

prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report not later than forty-
five (45) days after the end of each calendar semester, interim unaudited financial
reports for its Respective Part of the Project covering the semester, in form and
substance satisfactory to the Bank.

3. The Borrower shall have:

(a) the Financial Statements for its Respective Part of the Project audited in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions.
Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of
the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period;
and

{b) its entity financial statements audited in accordance with standards set
out in of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of such entity
financial statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower and
be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such
neriod.

Section Ul. Procurement

A. General

i. Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or

referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.

2. Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with

-14-
to

the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.

Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in Sections I and HI of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections I], 1, [V and V of the Consultant
Guidelines, as the case may be.

Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services

International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.

Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following method, other than International Competitive Bidding,
may be used for procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services wheré
the contract is estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $10,000,000: Well-
established Private Sector Procurement Methods or Commercial Practices which
have been found acceptable to the Bank and described in the Operational
Manual. |

Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services

Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.

Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following
method, other than Quality and Cost-based Sélection, may be used for
procurement of consultants’ services where the contract is estimated to cost less
than the equivalent of $1,000,000: Well-established Private Sector Procurement
Methods or Commercial Practices which have been found acceptable to the Bank
and described in the Operational Manual.

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

All contracts for: (1) goods, works or non-consulting services procured using
International Competitive Bidding; and (2) consultants’ services procured using
Quality and Cost-based Selection, shali be subject to the Bank’s Prior Review.
All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.
Section IV. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. General

1. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below,

2. The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.

   

  
  
  

Amount of the Loan
Allocated
(Expressed in USD)

(1) Sub-Loans under 67,000,000 100% of amount of Sub-
| Part C.1 of the loans disbursed
Project
{
|.

B. Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

 
  
  
   

Percentage of Expenditures
to be Financed
(Inclusive of Taxes)

   

L. Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made:

(a) from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the
Front-end Fee; or

(b) for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $6,700,000
equivalent may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or
after April 16, 2012, for Eligible Expenditures under Category (1).

2. The Closing Date is September 28, 2018.

-16-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule

1. The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date (“Installment Share”). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.

  
 
  

  
 

Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)

   
  
   
 

Principal Payment Date

  

On each March 15 and September 15
Beginning March 15, 2019
Through September 15, 2042

On March 15, 2043

2. if the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:

 
  

(a) To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
ihe first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph |
of this Schedule.

(b) Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling atter the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph | of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ( “Original Installment Share”)
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
(a) Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.

(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Cortversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.

If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount,

-|8-
APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

t.

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011, which
are applicable to all IBRD loans and IDA credits and grants.

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.

“Co-financier” means the Global Environment F acility.

“Co-financing” means, for purposes of paragraph 16 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, an amount of $900,000 to be provided by the Co-financier to
assist in financing the Respective Part of the Project.

“Co-financing Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and the Co-financier providing for the Co-financing,

“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidetines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers” dated January 2011.

“Displaced Persons” means persons who, on account of the execution of the
Project, have experienced or would experience direct economic and social
impacts caused by: (a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation

' of loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income

sources or means of livelihood, whether or not such persons must move to
another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legaily designated
parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such
persons.

“Energy Performance Contract” means a contract entered into between an ESCO

and a client which guarantees the realization of energy savings and/or efficiency
gain as a result of identified investments or measures and as more particularly
defined in the Operational Manual. :

“Environmental Policy Framework” means Environmental Review Procedures
disclosed by the Borrower locally on November 1, 2012, which sets forth policies
and procedures for environmental screening of Sub-projects, for conducting
environmental assessments and specifying requirements for environmental
mitigation measures to be included in environmental management plans; and
such document constitutes an integral part of the Operational Manual.

-19.
iS.

16.

17.

“ESCO” means an energy service company that is engaged, through
performance-based contracts, to reduce energy consumption and improve
efficiency of operations of its clients.

“Excluded Activities” means, collectively:

(a) Any of the activities listed, or activities that produce and/or use materials
listed, in the Operations Manual and which are classified and referred to
as part of the negative list in said manual.

(b) An investment that is classified as a Category “A” Sub-project in
accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual.

(c) An investment that entails land acquisition or involuntary resettlement or
would give rise to Displaced Persons.

(d) An investment that involves the potential use of, or discharge into,
waterways (or detailed design and engineering studies of such
investment) located in basins not listed in sub-paragraph 8(f) of Section
LB of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

(e) An investment that involves the construction of a new dam or will rely
on the performance of an existing dam or a dam under construction.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.

“Guarantee Agreement” means the agreement of the same date between the
Republic of Turkey and the Bank providing for the guarantee of the Loan, as
such agreement may be amended from time to time.

“Guarantor” means the Republic of Turkey.
‘“Halkbank” and “Tirkiye Halk Bankasi A.$.” mean a joint-stock company
operating pursuant to Law No. 4603 dated November 15, 2000, and which is

responsible for implementation of its Respective Part the Project.

“Leasing Company” means a private leasing company registered according to the
applicable laws and regulations of the Guarantor.

“MENR” means the Guarantor’s Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources, or
any successor thereto.

-20-

RAE RE as
18.

19,

21,

22,

23.

25.

27.

28.

“Mid-cap Company” means an enterprise that: (a) is not an SME; (b) has less
than 150,000,000 Turkish Lira in sales; and (c) employs fewer than 1,500
employees.

“Operational Manual” means the manual dated February 14, 2013 and to be
adopted by the Borrower, setting out the operational and administrative
procedures in respect of the preparation, approval, processing, financing,
implementation, and supervision of Sub-projects, and the manual includes the
Environmental Policy Framework. |

“PIU” means the implementation unit within the Borrower’s Investor Relations
and International Finance Department, or any successor to such unit.

“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers” dated January 2011.

“Respective Part of the Project” means with respect to:
(a) Halkbank, Part A of the Project:

(b) Vakifbank, Part B of the Project; and

(c) Ziraatbank, Part C of the Project.

“SME” means a small or medium enterprise that has less than 40,000,000
Turkish Lira in sales and employs fewer than 250 employees.

“Sub-loan” means a loan made by the Borrower, out of the proceeds of the Loan
to a Sub-Project Sponsor in accordance with the provisions in paragraph 5 of
Section L.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Sub-loan Contract” means a contract entered into between the Borrower and a
Sub-project Sponsor for the provision of a Sub-loan to a Sub-project Sponsor to
carry out a Sub-project.

“Sub-project” means a specific investment project under the Respective Part of
the Project and to be carried out by a Sub-project Sponsor utilizing the proceeds
ofa Sub-loan.

“Sub-project Sponsor” means any of the following and to which the Borrower
proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan: a SME, a Mid-cap Company, a
Leasing Company and an ESCO.

“Vakifbank” and “Tiirkiye Vakiflar Bankasi T.A.O.” mean a joint stock
company established pursuant to the statutes published in the Trade Registry

~2 J.
Gazette No. 8608 dated January 15, 1954 (Trade Registry No. 6219), and which
is responsible for implementation of its Respective Part of the Project.

“Ziraatbank” and “Tiirkiye Cumhuriyeti Ziraat Bankasi A.$” mean a joint stock
company first founded in 1863 with its bank status confirmed in March 23, 1916
under a special law and its legal status revised to be a joint stock company
pursuant to Law No. 4603 dated November 15, 2000, and which is responsible
for implementation of its Respective Part of the Project.

Section HI. Modifications to the General Conditions

The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:

The definition of the term “Conversion Date” in paragraph 20 of the Appendix to
the General Conditions is modified to read:

«Conversion Date’ means, for a Conversion, the Execution Date or such other
date as the Bank shall determine on which the Conversion enters into effect, as
further specified in the Conversion Guidelines; provided that if the Loan
Agreement provides for automatic Conversions into the Approved Currency
upon withdrawal of amounts of the Loan, the Conversion Date shall be the date
of withdrawal from the Loan Account of the amount in respect of which the
Conversion has been requested.”
