Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

 

   

OFFICIAL
| DOCUMENTS 4

flies *

LOAN NUMBER 8324-ME

 

Loan Agreement

(Additional Financing for the Montenegro Energy Efficiency Project)
between

MONTENEGRO

and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated December 27% ,2013

 

 
LOAN NUMBER 8324-ME
LOAN AGREEMENT

Agreement dated December 2F , 2013, between MONTENEGRO

(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing additional financing for the
Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Borrower and the
Bank hereby agree as follows:

1.01.

1.02.

2.01.

2.02.

2.03.

2.04.

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IIT — LOAN

The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of five million Euro (EUR 5,000,000),
as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement
(“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement (“Project”).

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.

The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.
2.05.

2.06.

2.07.

3.01.

-2-

The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

(a)

(b)

(c)

The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (i111) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.

Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.

Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE II — PROJECT

The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through MOE and MOH in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.
3.02.

4.0].

5.01.

5.02.

5.03.

-3-

Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedules 2 and 4 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.

ARTICLE V— REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Finance.
The Borrower’s Address is:

Ministry of Finance
Stanka Dragojevica 2
81000 Podgorica
Montenegro
Facsimile:

382 20 224 450
The Bank’s Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America

Cable address: Telex: Facsimile:

INTBAFRAD 248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 64145(MCT)
_4-

AGREED at © oO) GoR OA ; MV onteneteO , as of the day and

year first above written.
MONTENEGRO

By

C2)-

Authorized Representative
Ny . &«
Name: R&A DOAT ZUGAC
Title: MW\STER OF FINANCE

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND D

  
   
    

   

Authorized Representative

ame: GoRAN Twas

Title: ACUNG COVUWIRY MANAGER.
_5-

SCHEDULE 1
Project Description

The project development objective is to improve energy efficiency performance
in public sector buildings to provide a demonstrated basis to improve energy efficiency
implementation practices and capacity in public institutions and energy efficiency service
providers in Montenegro.

The Project consists of the Original Project, modified to read as follows:

Part A. Energy Efficiency Improvement in Public Sector Buildings

Implementing a program of demonstrable energy savings measures, through the
carrying out of civil works and the provision of goods and consultants’ services, to
support energy efficiency retrofitting in selected public sector buildings such as hospitals,
clinics and facilities for health care.

Part B. Support to the Implementation of the Project

(a) Support to the Project Steering Committee, the Project coordinator and the
TSU in the implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the Project, through the
provision of goods, consultants’ services and training, the carrying out of audits required
under the Project and the financing of Operating Costs; (b) the carrying out of surveys
and energy audits; and (c) support to MOH, through the provision of consultants’
services, for the design, procurement and implementation of energy savings measures
under the Project.
-6-

SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Section I. Implementation Arrangements

Institutional Arrangements

The Borrower shall, throughout the duration of the Project, maintain the Project
Steering Committee with a composition and terms of reference acceptable to the
Bank. The Project Steering Committee, which shall be headed by MOE, shall be
responsible for overall Project implementation oversight and coordination and for
preparing Project Reports.

For purposes of Part A of the Project, MOH shall maintain an investment and
Project implementation staff, supported as necessary by consultants, with
qualifications and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, responsible for
preparing, designing and implementing energy efficiency measures in hospitals,
clinics and facilities for health care, and for coordinating with the Project
Steering Committee.

The Borrower shall maintain, throughout the duration of the Project, a Project
coordinator with qualifications and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.
The Project coordinator, which shall be assigned to MOE’s energy efficiency
unit, shall be responsible for supporting the Project Steering Committee and
MOH in the implementation, coordination, monitoring and evaluation of the
Project, and for coordinating with the Project Steering Committee and the TSU.

The TSU shall be responsible for procurement, disbursement and financial
management of the Project under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank, in
accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and the Procurement Plan and,
to this end, the Borrower shall maintain, adequately fund and staff the TSU with
qualifications and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.

Anti-Corruption

The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.

Safeguards

The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Environmental
Management Framework, and shall not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or
waive any provision of said Framework without prior written approval of the
Bank.
_7-

The Borrower shall ensure that no works under Part A of the Project involve the
involuntary taking of land resulting in relocation or loss of shelter, loss of assets
or access to assets, loss of income sources or means of livelihood, or involving
the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and protected
areas according to the Bank’s policy on “Involuntary Resettlement”.

For purposes of Part A of the Project and prior to the commencement of any
energy savings measures for each proposed site, the Borrower shall: (a) submit to
the Bank for its approval, the proposed site for said measures and the related site-
specific environmental management plan and checklist, said site-specific plan
and checklist to be in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank and to be duly
included in the proposed contracts for said measures; and (b) ensure that such
measures are carried out in accordance with the Environmental Management
Framework.

Section IT. Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

Project Reports

The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Bank. Each Project
Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar semester, and shall be furnished
to the Bank not later than one (1) month after the end of the period covered by
such report.

Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits

The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.

Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of
each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering
the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.

The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower.
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the
Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
Section IIT. Procurement
A. General
l. Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. All goods, works and non-

consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.

2. Consultants’ Services. Al] consultants’ services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.

3. Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and II of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, HI, IV and V of the Consultant
Guidelines, as the case may be.

B. Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services

l. International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.

2. Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding,
may be used for procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for
those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) National Competitive
Bidding, subject to the additional provisions set forth in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement; (b) Shopping; and (c) Direct Contracting.

C, Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services

l. Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.

2. Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants’ services for those contracts which are specified in
the Procurement Plan: (a) (a) Quality-Based Selection; (b) Selection under a
_9-

Fixed Budget; (c) Least Cost Selection; (d) Selection based on Consultants’
Qualifications; (e) Single-source Selection of consulting firms; (f) Procedures for
competitive Selection of Individual Consultants; and (g) Single-source
procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants.

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the

Bank’s Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
-10-

Section IV. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. General

l. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.

2. The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.

  
 

  
  

   
     
   
   
    

Amount of the Loan Percentage of
Allocated Expenditures to be
(expressed in EUR) financed

inclusive of Taxes
and Training for the

4,777,500 100%
Project

(2) Operating Costs 210,000

(3) Front-end Fee 12,500 Amount payable pursuant
to Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance .
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions

(4) Interest Rate Cap or Amount due pursuant to
Interest Rate Collar Section 2.07(c) of this
premium Agreement

| TOTALAMOUNT | 5,000,000,

|__TOTAL AMOUNT _| po

  
  
 
  
       
   
   

  

(1) Goods, works, non-
consulting services,
consultants’ services

       
 
   
 

 

  

   

B. Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

l. Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.

2. The Closing Date is March 30, 2017.
-ll-

SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule

l. The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date (“Installment Share”). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.

Installment Share
Principal Payment Date Expressed as a Percentage

 
  
 
 
    

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

May 15, 2025 5.30%

November 15, 2025 5.46%

May 15, 2026 5.63%
5

2. If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:

November 15, 2026 5.80%

(a) To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
-12-

Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph |
of this Schedule.

(b) Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which ts
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph | of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”)
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.

(a) Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.

(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (1) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.

If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.
(1)

(il)

(iii)

(iv)

(v)

(vi)

(vil)

(viii)

-13-

SCHEDULE 4
Additional Procedures for National Competitive Bidding

Registration: (a) bidding shall not be restricted to pre-registered firms; (b) where
registration is required, bidders: (i) shall be allowed a reasonable time to
complete the registration process; and (ii) shall not be denied registration for
reasons unrelated to their capability and resources to successfully perform the
contract, which shall be verified through post-qualification.

Eligibility: foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding, and no
preference of any kind shall be given to national bidders.

Procedures: “Open procedures” shall be followed in all cases. Invitations to bid
shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated national daily newspaper,
allowing a minimum of thirty (30) days for the preparation and submission of
bids.

Pre-qualification: when pre-qualification shall be required for large or complex
works, invitations to pre-qualify for bidding shall be advertised in at least one (1)
widely circulated national daily newspaper a minimum of thirty (30) days prior to
the deadline for the submission of pre-qualification applications. Minimum
experience, technical and financial requirements shall be explicitly stated in the
pre-qualification documents.

Participation by government-owned’ enterprises: government-owned
enterprises in Montenegro shall be eligible to participate in bidding only if they
can establish that they are legally and financially autonomous, operate under
commercial law and are not a dependent agency of the government. Such
enterprises shall be subject to the same bid and performance security
requirements as other bidders.

Bidding documents: procuring entities shall use the appropriate standard
bidding documents for the procurement of works which shall contain draft
contract and conditions of contract, satisfactory to the Bank.

Submission of bids: bidders may, at their option, deliver bids either in person, by
courier service, or by mail at any time prior to the deadline set the submission of
bids.

Bid opening and bid evaluation: bids shall be opened in public and, if two
envelopes are submitted for technical and price components, both shall be opened
simultaneously. The time for the bid opening shall be the same as for the
deadline for receipt of bids or immediately thereafter, and shall be announced,
together with the place for bid opening, in the solicitation documents. Evaluation
(ix)

(x)

(xi)

(xii)

(xiii)

(xiv)

-14-

of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the monetarily quantifiable criteria
declared in the bidding documents. Extension of bid validity shall be allowed
once only for not more than thirty (30) days. No further extensions should be
requested without the prior approval of the Bank. Contracts shall be awarded to
qualified bidders having submitted the lowest evaluated substantially responsive
bid. Negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest evaluated bidder or any
other bidder.

Price adjustment: civil works contracts of long duration (e.g. more than
eighteen (18) months) shall contain an appropriate price adjustment clause.

Rejection of bids: all bids shall not be rejected and new bids solicited without
the Bank’s prior concurrence.

Contracts: all contracts shall be in writing, signed and stamped by authorized
signatories of the purchaser and the supplier, and shall contain identical terms
and conditions of contract to those included in the tender documents.

Securities: bid securities shall not exceed two percent (2%) of the estimated cost
of the contract; performance securities shall not exceed ten percent (10%). No
advance payments shall be made to contractors without a suitable advance
payment security. The wording of all such securities shall be included into the
bidding documents and be acceptable to the Bank.

Right to inspect and audit: In accordance with the Procurement Guidelines,
each bidding document and contract financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall provide that bidders, suppliers and contractors, and their subcontractors,
agents, personnel, consultants, service providers, or suppliers, shall permit the
Bank to inspect all accounts, records, and other documents relating to the
submission of bids and contract performance, and to have them audited by
auditors appointed by the Bank. Acts intended to materially impede the exercise
of the Bank’s inspection and audit rights provided for in the Procurement
Guidelines constitute an obstructive practice as defined in the Guidelines.

Fraud and Corruption: The bidding document and contract as deemed
acceptable by the Bank shall include provisions stating the Bank’s policy to
sanction firms or individuals, found to have engaged in fraud and corruption as
defined in the Procurement Guidelines.
-15-

APPENDIX
Definitions

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.

“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers” dated January 2011.

“Environmental Management Framework” means the framework dated July 25,
2008, prepared and adopted by the Borrower for the Original Project and
satisfactory to the Bank, consisting of the set of mitigation, monitoring, and
institutional measures required for the Project and to be taken to eliminate
adverse environmental and social impacts, offset them, or reduce them to
acceptable levels, as well as actions needed to implement said measures,
including the measures and information required for the preparation of site-
specific environmental management plans and checklists referred to in paragraph
C.3, Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated March 12, 2012.

“MOE” means the Borrower’s Ministry for Economy and includes any successor
thereto.

“MOF” or “Ministry of Finance” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance and
includes any successor thereto.

“MOH” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Health and includes any successor
thereto.

“Operating Costs” means the incremental expenses incurred by the Project
Steering Committee, the Project coordinator and the TSU on account of Project
implementation, including the costs of translation, communication, printing and
supplies, local travel costs and field trip expenses and fees paid to the consultant
hired for purposes of Project coordination, other than civil servants’ salaries.
-16-

“Original Loan Agreement” means the loan agreement for the Montenegro
Energy Efficiency Project (Loan Number 7637-ME) between the Borrower and
the Bank, dated December 30, 2008 as amended to the date of this Agreement.

“Original Project” means the Project described in the Original Loan Agreement.

“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers” dated January 2011.

“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project,
dated June 28, 2013 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.

“Project Steering Committee” means the Project steering committee established
pursuant to the Borrower’s decision dated September 22, 2008, and maintained
by the Borrower in accordance with paragraph A.1, Section I of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and comprising representatives of MOE and MOH and the
Project coordinator.

“Training” means reasonable expenditures (other than those for consultants’
services), as approved by the Bank, incurred for the carrying out of training
activities under the Project, including, inter alia, reasonable costs of travel and
per diem of trainers and trainees, cost of workshops, rental of training facilities
and equipment and training materials.

“TSU” means the Technical Services Unit within MOF.
