Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized.

   
  

OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS |

- ar, :

4

‘w,

 

 

 

LOAN NUMBER 8248-MU

Loan Agreement

(Second Private Sector Competitiveness Development Policy Loan)

between

REPUBLIC OF MAURITIUS
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated Alypt /7 , 2013

 

 
 

LOAN NUMBER 8248-MU

LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT dated Ay rt (9 , 2013, entered into between
REPUBLIC OF MAURITIUS (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing
financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The
Bank has decided to provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions
which the Borrower has already taken under the Program and which are described in
Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (b) the Borrower’s maintenance of an
adequate macroeconomic policy framework. The Borrower and the Bank therefore
hereby agree as follows: |

1.01.

1.02.

2.02.

2.03.

2.04.

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IT — LOAN

The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of nine million six hundred thousand
GBP (£9,600,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this
Agreement (“Loan”). |

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program
in accordance with Section II of Schedule | to this Agreement.

The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.

The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shali be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
2.08.

2.09.

-2-

Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.

The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

(a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(1) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (11) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.

(b) Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.

Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 of this
Agreement and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in
accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate
basis applicable to consecutive withdrawals from the Loan Account which in the
aggregate equal £9,600,000 shall be converted from the initial Variable Rate to a
Fixed Rate for the full maturity of such amount in accordance with the provisions
of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.

Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 of Section II of the Appendix to this
Agreement and relating to Cooperation and Consultation), the Borrower shall
promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this
Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request.
3.01.

-3-

ARTICLE III — PROGRAM

The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.
To this end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions:

(a)

(b)

(c)

the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of
either party, exchange views on the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy
framework and the progress achieved in carrying out the Program;

prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request; and

without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
Section, the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation
that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the
Program or any action taken under the Program including any action
specified in Section I of Schedule | to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK

The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:

(a)

(b)

A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program,
or a significant part of it, will be carried out.

An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any
action or policy under the Program, including any action listed under
Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, in a manner that would, in the
opinion of the Bank, adversely affect the achievement of the objectives
of the Program.

The Additional Events of Acceleration consist of the following:

(a)

(b)

Any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement
occurs and is continuing for a period of 30 days after notice of the event
has been given by the Bank to the Borrower.

Any event specified in paragraphs (a) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement
occurs.
5.01.

5.02.

6.01.

6.02.

 

-4-

- ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that
the Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out

the Program and with the adequacy of the Borrower’s macroeconomic
framework.

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.

ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Finance and Economic
Development.

The Borrower’s Address ts:

Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
Government House

Port Louis

Mauritius

Cable: Telex: Facsimile:
MINFIN 4247 (230) 213 6450

The Bank’s Address is:

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America

Cable address: Telex: Facsimile:

INTBAFRAD 248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 64145(MCI)
-5-

AGREED at Washington D.C., United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.

_ REPUBLIC OF MAURITIUS

By

Authorized Representative

   
 

Name:

Title:

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By

 

Authorized Representative

Name: {lo QoL. Rok,
Title: Ch At C3 +
Section I.

-6-

SCHEDULE 1
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds

Actions under the Program

Actions Taken Under the Program

l. The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program to support enterprise
growth and competitiveness include the following:

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

(1) the establishment , in operational form, of the Inter-Agency Strategic
Coordination Committee, as evidenced by letter MBE/SME/380 from
MoBEC, dated February 6, 2013 and the IASCC’s first meeting notes,
dated January 22, 2013, both received by the Bank; and (ii) the online
publication by MoFED, verified by the Bank, of requests for proposal to
develop an overall monitoring and evaluation framework for BDS
schemes;

the publication by the Insolvency Services of the rules relating to the
performance and conduct of insolvency practitioners in the National
Gazette, as per copy of the relevant release in the National Gazette of
October 27, 2012, via its General Notice No. 2260 of 2012, furnished to
the Bank;

the publication of regulations relating to the registration and removal of
insolvency practitioners in the National Gazette, as per copy of the
relevant release in the National Gazette of September 1, 2012, via its
General Notice No. 157 of 2012, furnished to the Bank; and

the publication, on the Insolvency Services official website, as verified
by the Bank, of Out-Of-Court Workout Guidelines to safeguard viable
businesses endorsed by the Bank of Mauritius through letter, dated
December 28, 2012, addressed to the Director of Insolvency Services and
which copy has been furnished to the Bank.

The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program to improve access to

finance include the following:

(a)

the initiation of the restructuring plan for DBM to be implemented
through the selection and appointment of a transactions advisor, the
endorsement of the inception report by the Steering Committee on
December 13, 2012, and the issuance by DBM management of letters of
invitation to potential investors for the sale of DBM’s non-banking
assets, all as per copy furnished to the Bank of, respectively: (i) the letter
(b)

(c)

-7-

of engagement dated October 31, 2012 addressed to the transaction
advisory firm retained following the selection process; (i1) the December
13, 2012, Steering Committee meeting notes providing relevant
endorsement; and (iii) letters of invitations for right to first offer made on
January 3, 2013, to existing DBM’s land tenants;

the Borrower’s decision to complete all pertinent legislative to: (i) ensure
the establishment of a modern movable collateral registry; and (ii)
facilitate the use of movable and intangible assets as collateral, as
evidenced by letter from MOFED to the Bank referenced CF/92/4/B and
dated December 12, 2012, along with copy of the parliamentary debates
(Hansard) of the 5" national assembly’s second session dated November
28, 2012, which include in its Annex B pertinent details concerning the
establishment and operationalization of said registry; and

the carrying out of the legislative amending process for the pertinent
sections of the Bank of Mauritius Act to provide for the definition of
Utility Body to further increase coverage of the Credit Information
Bureau, as evidenced by copy of the Economic and Financial Measures
(Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 2012 furnished to the Bank.

The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program to enhance ICT and E-
Government support for increased efficiency and transparency gains include the
following:

(a)

(b)

(c)

the ICTA Board’s approval of draft legislative amendments to the
pertinent sections of the ICT Act of 2001 in order to achieve the
liberalization of the ICT sector, thereby allowing the issuance of class
licenses and the reform of the spectrum management under which
auctions and secondary trading can take place, as evidenced by letter
from MICT referenced MIC/279/1V3 dated February 5, 2013, which
confirms the approval by ICTA Board on November 1, 2012 of the said
draft legislative amendments which were also furnished to the Bank;

the publication of guidelines for tariff setting on ICTA’s official website,
as verified by the Bank; and

the conclusion of a contract between MoICT and a competitively
selected partner for the development of a government services platform
for E-Government services protected by a public key infrastructure, as
evidenced by copy furnished to the Bank of the parliamentary debates
(Hansard) of the 5" national assembly’s second session dated October
30, 2012, which includes extracts from the Private Notice question
discussing the appointment resulting from said contract.
-8-

Section II. Availability of Loan Proceeds

A.

General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank
may specify by notice to the Borrower.

Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan (except for amounts required to pay the
Front-end Fee) is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche, from which the
Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds. The allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below:

Amount of the Loan

 
  
 

Allocated
Allocations (expressed in GBP)

(1) Single Withdrawal 9,576,000
Tranche

(2) Front-end Fee 24,000
TOTAL AMOUNT £9,600,000

Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions

  
 
     

No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank
is satisfied: (a) with the Program being carried out by the Borrower; and (b) with
the adequacy of the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework.

Deposits of Loan Amounts. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:

l. all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank
into an account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank;
and

2. the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the

Loan into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the
Borrower’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the
Bank.

Excluded Expenditures. The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan
shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines at
any time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an
Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank,
refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts
refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled.
F.

Closing Date. The Closing Date is June 30, 2014.

 
 

-10-

SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date (“Installment Share’). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.

| Installment Share
Principal Payment Date (Expressed as a Percentage)

On each April 15and October 15

Beginning April 15, 2018 3.85%
through April 15, 2030

On October 15, 2030 3.75%

If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:

 

(a) To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph |
of this Schedule.

(b) Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share’’)
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
-ll-

(a) Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.

(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs | and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. |

If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.
-12-

APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

l.

“BDS” means business development services, which are generic and/or sector
specialized advisory services provided to small and medium size enterprises of
the territory of the Borrower to promote and support their development and
growth.

“Bank of Mauritius” or “BOM” means the national bank of the Borrower
established pursuant to the Bank of Mauritius Act No. 34 of 2004.

“DBM” means Development Bank of Mauritius ltd, a company incorporated and
established on January 1, 1989, primarily for the provision of loan assistance and
concession finance facilities to individuals or group of persons of the Borrower’s
territory for the implementation of projects and the carrying out of businesses
against various forms of guarantees for loan repayments.

“Credit Information Bureau” means the Borrower’s owned entity established by
the Bank of Mauritius to provide consumer financial data for lending purposes.

“E-Government” means electronic government.
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure:

(a) for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit,
or grant;

(b) for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the
Borrower:
(c)

(d)

(e)

(f)

-13-

Sub-group Description of Item

pi? | CCC Alcoholic beverages
i
tobacco refuse
122 Tobacco, manufactured
(whether or not containing
tobacco substitutes)

Radioactive and associated
materials

Pearls, precious and
semiprecious stones,
unworked or worked
Nuclear reactors, and parts
thereof; fuel elements
(cartridges), non-irradiated,
for nuclear reactors

Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals
(except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths’ or
silversmiths’ wares

Gold, non- 1-monetary
(excluding gold ores and
concentrates)

 

for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
consumption;

for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international
agreements to which the Borrower is a party;

on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the
United Nations; and

with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent,
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the
Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower
(or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action
satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur.
10.

ll.

12.

13.

16.

17.

-14-

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated March 12, 2012 with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.

“IASCC” means the inter-agency strategic coordination committee under the
administrative authority of MoBEC (as hereinafter defined), established in
January 2013 with the objective of improving the outreach and quality of BDS
targeted towards SMEs.

“Insolvency Services” means pertinent Borrower’s services under the Insolvency
Act No. 3 of 2009.

“ICTA” means the Borrower’s Information and Communication Technologies
Authority, created in 2001 with the status of a body corporate through relevant
Act of Parliament and “ICTA Board” refers to the board of directors of said
authority which status, composition, mandate and powers are defined in its by-
laws.

“MoBEC” means, depending on the context, the Borrower’s Ministry of Business,
Enterprise and Cooperatives, or the minister in charge of It.

“MoFED” means, depending on the context, the Borrower’ s Ministry of
Finance and Economic Development or the minister in charge of it.

“MoICT” means depending on the context the Borrower’s ministry of
information and communication technology or the minister in charge of it.

“National Gazette” refers to the Gazette of Mauritius, the official press organ of
the Borrower in which selected legal and administrative announcements and
publications are communicated and made available to the public.

“NRF” means the Borrower’s National. Resilience Fund, established in
accordance with the Borrower’s Government’s Budget speech 2012 to support
enterprises at microeconomic level.

“Out-Of-Court Workout Guidelines” means guidelines developed to promote
restructuring arrangements between lenders and debtors in an informal and
flexible manner that does not drain court resources and seeks to preserve viable
business.

“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or
referred to in the letter dated February 15, 2013 from the Borrower to the Bank
declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and
-15-

requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its
execution.

18. “PKI” means public key infrastructure (PKI) which is a secure encryption
technique, to execute secure electronic transactions.

19. “Single Withdrawal Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the

| category entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of
Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. |

20. “SME” means a small or medium size enterprise.

21. “SOE” means a State-Owned Enterprise.

22. “Steering Committee” refers to the steering committee for the restructuring of
DBM, established in August 2012, by the Borrower for the purpose indicated.

23. “Utility Body” means a body corporate which provides utility services to the
public and includes the Central Electricity Board, the Central water Authority,
the Waste Water management Authority and companies offering ICT services.

Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions

The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:

I.

The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.

Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered
accordingly.

Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management;
Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining

Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly.

Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above
and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.

Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3
above) is modified to read as follows:

“Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records
 

-16-

vee (c) The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures
under the Loan until two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower
shall enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.”

6. Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3
above) is modified to read as follows:

Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation

ve (c) The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and
furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a
report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by the Loan
Parties and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Legal
Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.

7. The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered
accordingly:

(a)

(b)

(c)

The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as
follows:

““Fligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put in
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded
pursuant to the Loan Agreement.”

The term “Financial Statements” and its definition are deleted in their
entirety.

The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is
modified to read as follows (and all references to “Project” throughout
these General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program’’):

“<Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in
support of which the Loan is made.”
