Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

 

‘LOAN NUMBER 8221-PE

Loan Agreement

(First Social Inclusion Development Policy Loan)
between
REPUBLIC OF PERU
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated A pe 12/2013
LOAN AGREEMENT

Agreement dated Ap vil Zf{__, 2013, entered into between REPUBLIC OF
PERU (“Borrower”) and RNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the
Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Bank has decided to
provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of (a) the actions which the Borrower has
already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to

this Agreement, and (b) the Borrower’s maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic
policy framework. The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I— GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01. The Generat Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integra! part of this Agreement.

1.02. Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement. 7 |

ARTICLE li — LOAN

2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or |
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of forty five million Dollars |
($45,000,000) as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this
Agreement (“Loan”). .

2.02. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program
in accordance with Section IJ of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

2.03. : The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one

percent (0.25%), of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee
not later than sixty days after the Effective Date.

2.04. The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest ‘Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions. |
2.05. The Payment Dates are March 15 and September15 in each year.

2.06. . The principal amount of the Loan shall be ‘repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

2.07. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions —
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of

_ the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based ona Fixed Spread; and (iil) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.

(b) Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined —
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines. | . |

2.08. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 of Section Il of the Appendix to this
Agreement and relating to Cooperation and Consultation), the Borrower. shall
promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this
Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request. —

ARTICLE Ill — PROGRAM

3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.
To this end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions:

(a) the Borrower and the Bank shall from. time to. time, at the request of

either party, exchange views on the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy
framework and the progress achieved in carrying out the Program;

2.
4.01.

4.02.

5.01.

5.02, |

(b) prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Bank for its review and comments a report on the progress achieved in
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request; and

(c) without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
Section, the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation
that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the
Program or any action taken under the Program including any action
specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:

(a) that situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program,
"or a significant part of it, will be carried out.

(b) that an action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any
action or policy under the Program, including any action listed under
Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, in a manner that would, in the
opinion of the Bank, adversely affect the achievement of the objectives
of the Program.

The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that any
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a
period of 60 days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the
Borrower. |

ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that
the Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out
the Program and with the adequacy of the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy
framework. |

Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan

which expire on June 13, 2014. |

-3-
6.01

6.02.

6.03.

ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

The Borrower’s representative is its Minister of Economy and Finance, provided
that the Borrower’s Director of Indebtedness and Public Treasury may, by him or
herself, represent the Borrower to sign amendments to this Agreement which are
considered of an administrative and non-financial nature. The signing by such
Director of an amendment shall constitute a representation by the Borrower that

‘any such amendment is considered to be administrative and non-financial in

nature.

The Borrower’s Address is:
Ministry of Economy and Finance
Jr. Junin 319

Lima, Peru

Facsimile: (511) 626-9921
The Bank’s Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N. W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America

Cable address: Telex: | Facsimile:

INTBAFRAD 248423(MCD or 1-202-477-6391 |
Washington,D.C. . 64145(MCJ)

4.
AGREED at #2 Dishicl of Clo/vasbis, ait Shf> of fucricn._, as
of the day and year first above written. :

REPUBLIC OF PERU

By

Authorized Representative

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By ge >

- Authorized Representative

5-

 

oe
SO ee a OE

pie Se.
SCHEDULE 1

_ Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds

Section I. Actions under the Program
- Actions Taken Under the Program
The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following:

1. The Borrower has approved the legal and institutional framework required for the
‘stewardship of the social inclusion agenda under MIDIS, as evidenced by: (i)
Law No. 29792, dated October 10, 2011, and published in the Borrower’s
Official Gazette.on October 20, 2011, which created MIDIS; (11) Supreme Decree-
No. 001-2011-MIDIS, dated December, 26, 2011, and published in the
Borrower’s Official Gazette on December 27, 2011; (iii) Resolution of MIDIS
General Secretariat No. 004-2011 -MIDIS, dated December 31, 2011, and
published on the MIDIS Webpage, which ascribed five social inclusion programs
to MIDIS; and (iv) Supreme Decree No. 011-2012-MIDIS, dated September 4,
2012, and published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on September 5, 2012,
which approved the MIDIS’ rules of organization and operations.

2. The Borrower has approved the expansion of coverage of Juntos to the.
Borrower’s districts where SISFOH has carried out a socio-economic evaluation
and where the poverty levels are between 40% and 50%, as evidenced by
Supreme Decree No. 009-2012-MIDIS, dated July 5, 2012, and published i in the
Borrower’s Official Gazette on July 06, 2012.

3. The Borrower, through MIDIS, has launched the process to improve the quantity
and quality of family support provided by Juntos, through the recruitment of one
thousand new local promoters with enhanced terms of reference, as evidenced by
Official Letter (Oficio) No. 120-2012 MIDIS/SG/OGCAI, dated October 25,
2012.

4. The Borrower has approved the expansion of the coverage of Pensidn 65
nationwide, as evidenced by: (i) Supreme Decree No. 006-2012-MIDIS, dated
May 5, 2012, and published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on May 6, 2012,
which defined the new scope of Pensién 65, and (ii) Supreme Decree No. 009-
2012-MIDIS, dated July 5, 2012, and published in the Borrower’s Official
Gazette on July 6, 2012, which approved Pension 65’s geographical expansion
nationwide. .

-6-
_ The Borrower has created Qali Warma, to ensure food service delivery to
children enrolled in public. pre-schools and primary schools, as evidenced by
Supreme Decree No. 008 -2012-MIDIS, dated May 30, 2012, and published in
the Borrower’s Official Gazette on May 31, 2012. a,

_ The Borrower has started to develop the institutional framework for SISFOH
tinder MIDIS, as evidenced by: (i) Emergency Decree No. 001-2012, dated
January 21, 2012, and published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on January
22, 2012, which approved the transfer of SISFOH from the PCM to MIDIS until
December 31, 2012; (ii) Budget Bil! of Law No.1465/2012-PE, submitted to
Congress on August 29, 2012, which transfers SISFOH to MIDIS permanently
and approves the transfer of information complementing the general household
registry to MIDIS. :

_ The Borrower has taken measures to update the general household registry, as
evidenced by: (i) Agreement (Convenio) between PCM and INEI, dated
November 21, 2011, which instructed INEI to conduct a socio-economic census
in 9 regions in the Borrower’s territory; (ii) Agreement (Convenio) between
UCPS and INEI, dated February 9, 2012, which instructed INEI to continue the
‘socio-economic census in 3 additional regions in the Borrower’s territory; (ili)
Budget Bill of Law No.1465/2012-PE, submitted to Congress on August 29,
2012, which authorized MIDIS to transfer seventy million Nuevos Soles (S/,
70,000,000) to INEI to continue the socio-economic census; and (iv) Ministerial
Resolution No 143-2012-MIDIS, dated August 16, 2012, and published in the
Borrower’s Official Gazette on August 17, 2012, which approved the technical
guidelines to improve. the. information collection: for the general household

registry.

_ The Borrower, through MIDIS, has approved guidelines for the development of a
monitoring and evaluation system for results-based policy formulation and
management in the social inclusion sector, as evidenced by Ministerial
Resolution No.192-2012-MIDIS, dated October 23, 2012, and published in the
Borrower’s Official Gazette on October 25, 2012.

. The Borrower, through MIDIS, has approved guidelines for inter-sectoral and
inter-governmental coordination to reduce chronic malnutrition in the framework
of development and social inclusion policies, identifying priority districts in the
Borrower’s territory where effective interventions will be implemented, as
evidenced by Ministerial Resolution N° 131-2012-MIDIS, dated July 23, 2012
and published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on July 25, 2012.

Je
Section IT. Availability of Loan Proceeds

A. General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank
may specify by notice to the Borrower. | |

B. Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan is allocated in a single withdrawal
tranche, from which the Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds.
The allocation of the amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in-the table below:

Amount of the Loan Tranche ]
Allocated

(expressed in Dollars)

1) Single Withdrawal Tranche 45,000,000
TOTAL AMOUNT 45,000,000

‘C.._ Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions.

    
  

     

Allocations

No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank
is satisfied: (a) with the Program being carried out by the Borrower; and (b) with
the adequacy of the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework.

‘D. Payment of Front-end Fee. No withdrawal shall be made from the Loan
Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end Fee.

E. Deposits of Loan Amounts. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:

l. all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank
into an account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank;
and.

2. the Borrower shal] ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the
Loan into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the
Borrower’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the
Bank. oe

F, Excluded Expenditures. The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan
shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines at
any time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an
Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank,
refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts
refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled.

G. Closing Date. The Closing Date is December 31, 2013.

. -8-
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule

l. The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date (“Installment Share”). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully

_ withdrawn es of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency

Conversion applies. | |
Installment Share a
(Expressed as a Percentage) |
On each March 15 and September15 }

Beginning March 15, 2018 | .
through March 15, 2020 | 16.67%

On September 15, 2020 | 16.65%

2. If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: —

  

Principal Payment Date

 

     

   
    

(a) To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph !

_ of this Schedule. :

(b) | Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is —
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph | of this
Schedule for said Principal Paymient Date (“Original Installment Share”)
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies. |

-9..
(a) Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment’ Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each

_ Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date 7 withdrawal.

(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of al! or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.

If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.

-40-
APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

I, “Congress” means Congreso de la Republica del Peru, the Borrower’s legislative
branch.
2, “Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure:
(a) for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or -

international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the
_ Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit,

or grant, .

(b) for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future
revisions to the.SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the
Borrower: | : :

Description of Item
Alcoholic beverages
Tobacco, un-
manufactured, tobacco
refuse

Tobacco, manufactured
(whether or not containing
tobacco substitutes)
Radioactive and associated |.
materials

Pearls, precious and
semiprecious stones,
unworked or worked
Nuclear reactors, and parts
thereof: fue] elements
(cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear
reactors .

machine
897 897.3 Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals
except watches and watch |

-11-

       
  

 
    

   
    

  

  
cases) and goldsmiths’ or
silversmiths’ wares
including set gems

Gold, non-monetary
(excluding gold ores and
concentrates

 

(c) for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
consumption;

(d) for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international
agreements to which the Borrower is a party, and any other goods
designated as environmentally hazardous by agreement between the
Borrower and the Bank); |

(e) on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VI of the Charter of the
United Nations; and

(f) with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent,
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the
Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower
(or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action
satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur.

“General Conditions” means. the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated March 12, 2012 with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.

“INEI” means Instituto Nacional de Estadisticas e Informdtica, the Borrower's
institute of statistics.

“Juntos” means Programa Nacional de Apoyo Directo a los Mas Pobres, the
Borrower’s national program to support the poorest, created pursuant to the
Borrower’s Supreme Decree N° 032-2005-PCM, dated April 6, 2005. and
published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on August 8, 2005, as amended to
the date of this Agreement.

“MIDIS” means Ministerio de Desarrollo e Inclusion Social, the Borrower’s
Ministry of Development and Social Inclusion. |

“MIDIS Webpage” means MIDIS’s web page accessible through the following
URL http://www.midis.gob. pel

-12-
10.

I.

12,

“Nuevo Sof” means the Borrower’s lawful currency.

“PCM” means Presidencia del Consejo de Ministros, the Borrower’s Presidency
of the Ministers Cabinet.

“Pension 65” means Programa Nacional de Asistencia Solidaria, the Borrower's
national program of social assistance, created pursuant to the Borrower’s
Supreme Decree No. 081-2011-PCM, dated October 19, 2011, and published in
the Borrower’s Official Gazette on October 19, 2011, as amended to the date of
this Agreement.

“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or
referred to in the letter dated October 23, 2012, from the Borrower to the Bank
declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and

requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its

execution.

“Qali Warma” means Programa Nacional de Alimentacion Escolar, the
Borrower’s national school feeding program, created pursuant to the Borrower’s
Supreme Decree No. 008-2012-MIDIS, dated May 30, 2012, and published ir in the |
Borrower’s Official Gazette on May 31, 2012.

“Single Withdrawal Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the
category entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of
Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. .

“SISFOH” means Sistema de Focalizacién de Hogares, the Borrower’s
Household Targeting System, created pursuant to the Borrower’s Ministerial
Resolution No. 399-2004-PCM, dated December 20, 2004 and published in the’
Borrower’s Official Gazette on December 22, 2004, as amended to the date of
this Agreement.

“UCPS” means Unidad de Coordinacién de Préstamos Sectoriales, the
Borrower’s Coordination Unit for Sectorial Loans within MEF, created pursuant
to the Borrower’s Legislative Decree N° 25535, dated June 5, 1992, or any other
successor thereto.

+«13-

 
Section I. Modifications to the General Conditions

The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:

1.

The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.

‘Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted

in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered
accordingly. | |

Sections 5 01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management,
Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining

Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly.

Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above

and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.

Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3
above) is modified to read as follows: |

“Section 5.06, Plans; Documents; Records

(c) The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures
under the Loan until two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower
shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records.”

Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3
above) is modified to read as follows:

Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation

. . (ce) The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and

: furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a

report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably

request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by the Loan

Parties and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Legal
Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.

-[4-
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered
accordingly:

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” ‘is modified to read as
follows:

“‘Bligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put in
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded
pursuant to the Loan Agreement.”

The term “Financial Statements” and its definition are deleted in their
entirety.

The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is
modified to read as follows (and all references to “Project” throughout
these General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”):

“<Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in
support of which the Loan is made.”

The definition of the term “Loan Payment” is modified to read as
follows:

“loan Payment” means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the
Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these Genera] Conditions,
including (but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan
Balance, interest, the Front-end Fee, interest at the Default Interest Rate
(if any), any stand-by fee, any prepayment premium, any transaction fee
for a Conversion or early termination of a Conversion, the Variable
Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable upon the
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any
Unwinding Amount payable by the Borrower.”

-[5-
