 

LOAN NUMBER 8200 -BR

Loan Agreement

(Additional Financing for the Rio de Janeiro Sustainable Rural Development
Project - Financiamento Adicional ao Projeto de Desenvolvimento Rural Sustentavel
em Microbacias Hidrogrdaficas - Rio Rural/FA)

between

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

and

STATE OF RIO DE JANEIRO

Dated August I 9 , 2013

OL)

P
=)
9
Pa

PG
°

—

*
ae d
5

LOAN AGREEMENT

Agreement dated Ai ig ! IS t d g > 2013. between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR CONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(“Bank”) and STATE OF RIO DE JANEIRO (“Borrower”) for the purpose of providing

additional financing for activities related to the Original Project (as defined in the
Appendix to this agreement).

The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree as follows:

1.02.

2.01.

2.04.

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.

ARTICLE Ii — LOAN

The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred million Dollars
(US$100,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through
a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to
this Agreement (“Project”).

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower’s Representative for
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this
Section is its Governor or its Secretary of Agriculture.

The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee
not later than 60 days after the Effective Date.

The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of
2.05.

2.06.

2.07.

the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General
Conditions. :

The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

(a) The Borrower may at any time, in each case with the prior no objection
of the Guarantor, through the Secretariat of the National Treasury of the
Guarantor’s Ministry of Finance, request any of the following
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt
management: (i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an
Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to:
(A) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iit) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.

(b) Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.

ARTICLE II — PROJECT

The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through SEAPEC in accordance
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.
“ PS
: “a

,.
: =
5

~

* 40>”

3.02.

4.01.

4.02.

5.01.

5.02.

5.03.

Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:

(a) The Project Implementation Unit’s Regulation has been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of the Borrower to
perform any of its obligations under this Agreement.

(b) The Technical Cooperation Agreements have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely, in
the opinion of the Bank, the ability of the Borrower, or respectively
EMATER and PESAGRO to perform any of their obligations under this
Agreement and/or under the Technical Cooperation Agreements.

The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that any
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a
period of 90 days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the
Borrower.

ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that
the Project Operational Manual has been duly amended by the Borrower to
enable the carrying out of the Project.

The Additional Legal Matters consist of the following:

(a) the amendment to the Project Operational Manual has been duly signed,
authorized and/or ratified by the Borrower, and is legally binding upon
the Borrower in accordance with said manual’s respective terms; and

(b) that the Loan has been registered with the Guarantor’s Central Bank.

Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness
Deadline 1s the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan
which expire on May 6, 2014.
6.01.

6.02.

ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

Except as provided in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower’s
Representative is its Governor.

The Borrower’s Address is:

Palacio Guanabara

Rua Pinheiro Machado, s/n
Rio de Janeiro, RJ, 22238-900
Brazil

Facsimile: (55-21) 2334-3773

With copies to:

Secretaria de Estado de Fazenda

Av. Presidente Vargas, 670 — 15° andar
Centro, Rio de Janeiro, RJ, 20071-001
Brazil

Facsimile: (55-21) 2334-4535

SEAPEC - Secretaria de Estado de Agricultura e Pecuaria
Alameda Sao Boaventura, 770

Fonseca

Niterdi, RJ, 24120-191

Brazil

Facsimile: (55-21) 3607-6003 and (55-21) 3607-5398

Ministério do Planejamento, Or¢amento e Gestao
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais

Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco “K” - 5° andar
Brasilia, DF, 70040-906

Brazil

Facsimile: (55-61) 2020-5006 and 2020-5015
(Fe

42

6.03.

The Bank’s Address is:

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America

Cable address: Telex: Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 64145(MCI)

AGREED at Rio ae Ny le iO Bra 3 iW , as of the day and
year first above written.

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION

AND DEVELOPMENT
By
nt J

Authorized Representative
STATE OF RIO DE JANEIRO
By

o™
Autpforized Representative
-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description

The objective of the Project is to increase the adoption of integrated and sustainable
farming systems approaches in specific areas of the Borrower’s territory and help re-
establish an agricultural productive environment in areas of the Serrana Region affected
by the January 2011 natural disaster, thus contributing to the higher-order objective of
increasing small-scale farming productivity and competitiveness in those areas.

The Project consists of the following components included in the Original Project, as
amended solely for purposes of the Loan:

Component 1. Supporting Rural Production and Competitiveness

Provide assistance to rural producers by working with community groups across local,
municipal and regional levels to increase organizational and participation skills for
Project implementation through capacity-building and planning activities; to operate
changes in rural production processes within a framework of market-driven agricultural
development focused on sustainable and increased productivity of small farmers, value
added and market linkages; and to help re-establish the productive environment of small
farmers affected by the January 2011 natural disaster in the Serrana Region, by
supporting:

1.1 Pre-investment activities to strengthen organization and capacity for agricultural
productivity through training, planning and technical assistance activities in favor of
Beneficiaries to enable them to identify and diagnose, based on their initial status, key
production challenges to transition towards more profitable and sustainable farming
systems, and elaborate investment proposals with special emphasis on production and
competiveness to gradually overcome those challenges; and

1.2 Investments to implement

(a) through the provision of grants (Grants), demand driven activities aimed
at: (i) improving sustainable and productive farming systems and
developing value-chains and access to market (Productive Subprojects
and Structuring Subprojects depending on the Beneficiary); and (11)
improving compliance with environmental regulations and adoption of
agro-ecological and environmentally sound practices, and improving
sanitation, disaster risk management, and integrated landscape
management and conservation (Environmental Subprojects and
Structuring Subprojects depending on the Beneficiary); and
(b) demand-driven activities aimed at erosion control and rehabilitation and
maintenance of rural roads (Rural Roads Subprojects).

Component 2. Strengthening Institutional Frameworks

Improve the Borrower’s institutional frameworks supporting market-driven agricultural
development by:

2.1 Strengthening rural institutions and coordination mechanisms through
capacity-building for the Borrower’s agencies (Beneficiaries) to more quickly and
effectively respond to rural sector demands, providing better services and coordination
with other public and private sector stakeholders through, in the short term, the
implementation of specific activities (Institutional Subprojects) identified in an
institutional sustainability plan (the Institutional Sustainability Plan) and, in the long
term, by contributing to the implementation of a national policy in support of territorial
development.

2.2 Improving public and private financial support mechanisms through the
enhancement of linkages between the supply and the demand of financial resources for
sustainable rural development activities by the development of an economic sustainability
system, with participation of public and private sector representatives, to promote
awareness of, and access to, the existing supply of public and private financial support
resources to Beneficiaries of Productive Subprojects, Environmental Subprojects, and
Structuring Subprojects and a better flow of financial resources in favor of such
Beneficiaries; and facilitate the exchange of information between the parties involved.

2.3 Undertaking participatory research to develop a new and effective operational
system (the Sustainable Services Research Network System) to conduct, in general,
agriculture-related research and induce innovation and interaction between research
bodies and stakeholders in the identification, discussion and prioritization of key issues in
the agricultural and food sector in the Borrower’s territory and, specifically, provide
direct support to the implementation of short and medium-term research demands
identified by Beneficiaries through a participatory process.

Component 3. Project Coordination and Information Management
Support the Borrower’s overall Project management, coordination and implementation,
monitoring and evaluation as well as dissemination of key sustainable rural development

information under the Project by financing:

3.1 Project coordination through the strengthening of the organizational and
operational structure of the Project Implementation Unit; and
3.2 Information management through the development and implementation of a
management information system that ensures widespread access and adequate
information flows to impact stakeholder decision-making in support of sustainable rural
development as well as through the promotion of the use of digital and other information
technology tools among Project stakeholders and Beneficiaries under Components 1 and
2 of the Project.
SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Section I. Implementation Arrangements

Institutional Arrangements

The Borrower shall carry out the Project through SEAPEC, and cause any
partners implementing parts of or activities under the Project to carry out their
respective part or activity under the Project, all in accordance with the Project
Operational Manual, including the Procurement Plan, the Annual Operating Plan,
the Environmental Management Framework and the Involuntary Resettlement
Framework and other arrangements as per paragraph 7 below. Except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend or waive any provision
of these documents without the Bank’s prior written approval. In case of any
conflict between the terms of said documents and those of this Agreement, the
terms of this Agreement shall prevail.

The Borrower shall maintain, until the completion of the execution of the Project,
a Project implementation unit (the Project Implementation Unit) within SEAPEC
and with competent staff in adequate numbers with qualifications and experience
satisfactory to the Bank and, as applicable, selected in accordance with the
provisions of Section II of this Schedule, including the following key staff: a
Project coordinator, a technical coordinator, an administrative coordinator, a
procurement specialist and a financial management specialist.

The Borrower shall cause EMATER and PESAGRO to maintain, until the
completion of the execution of the Project, competent staff responsible for the
implementation of the Project in adequate numbers with qualifications and
experience satisfactory to the Bank and, as applicable, selected in accordance
with the provisions of Section III of this Schedule.

The Borrower shall maintain, until the completion of the execution of the Project,
an advisory council (the State Sustainable Rural Development Council) to
convene as needed to discuss issues affecting Project implementation, and shall
promptly submit the minutes of said meetings to the Bank.

The Borrower shall create and thereafter maintain, until the completion of the
execution of the Project, the committees (the Microcatchment Development
Committees) to prepare the micro-catchment development plans, convene to
approve the pertinent Subprojects, supervise the implementation of said
Subprojects, and shall promptly submit the minutes of said meetings to the
Project Implementation Unit.
10.

The Borrower shall create and thereafter maintain, until the completion of the
execution of the Project, the regional development councils (the Regional
Development Councils) and the municipal councils (the Municipal Councils).

The Borrower shall, through SEAPEC, prior to the carrying out of any Project
activities with partners which will provide SEAPEC assistance in the
implementation of the Project, finalize the institutional arrangements containing
terms and conditions approved by the Bank as further specified in the model
form included in the Project Operational Manual for the implementation of the
respective Project Components or subcomponents. Said arrangements will be
incorporated in the Project Operational Manual and the Borrower shall cause the
partners within their responsibilities to comply with said arrangements until the
end of the execution of their respective Components of the Project. Except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend or waive any provision
of these arrangements once incorporated in the Project Operational Manual so as
to affect materially and adversely, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of any
partner or the ability of the Borrower to perform any of their obligations under
this Agreement or said institutional arrangements. In case of any conflict
between the terms of said arrangements and those of this Agreement, the terms of
this Agreement shall prevail.

The Borrower shall, at least once a year during Project implementation, on or
about December 1, commencing on the first such date after the Effective Date,
prepare and furnish to the Bank a plan (the Annual Operating Plan) for the
Project operation during the following twelve months.

The Borrower shall: (a) have all the procurement records and documentation for
the Subprojects for each fiscal year of the Project audited in accordance with
appropriate procurement auditing principles by independent auditors acceptable
to the Bank; (b) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later
than six months after the end of each such fiscal year, the procurement audit
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
shall have reasonably requested; and (c) furnish to the Bank such other
information concerning said procurement records and documentation and the
procurement audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.

The Borrower shall amend the Project Operational Manual on terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank, and, thereafter shall maintain said manual in
full force and effect, until completion of the Project.

Anti-Corruption

The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.

-10-

P¢
:
S=s 5

ad
C. Subprojects

l. The Borrower shall provide grants to Beneficiaries for Subprojects in accordance
with eligibility criteria and procedures acceptable to the Bank as further detailed
in the Project Operational Manual, including approval procedures to be followed
by the Microcatchment Development Committee.

2. The Borrower shall, through SEAPEC, enter into:

(a) Grant Agreements appropriate for the carrying out of Components 1.2 (a)
and 2.1 of the Project with the pertinent Beneficiaries, and

(b) Implementation Agreements appropriate for the carrying out of
Component 1.2 (b):

such agreements to be made in accordance with the terms of the
respective draft set forth in model forms approved by the Bank and
included in the Project Operational Manual, in which the Borrower shall
obtain rights adequate to protect its interests and those of the Bank,
including the right to:

(1) suspend or terminate the right of Beneficiaries to use the
proceeds of the Grant or the allocated financing, or obtain a
refund of all or any part of the amount of the Grant or financing
then withdrawn, upon the Beneficiaries’ failure to perform any
of its obligations under the Grant Agreement or the
Implementation Agreement; and

dD) require each Beneficiary to:

(1) carry out its Subproject with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with sound technical,
agricultural, economic, financial, managerial,
environmental and social standards and_ practices
satisfactory to the Bank, including in accordance with
the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines
applicable to recipients of Loan proceeds other than the
Borrower, the Project Operational Manual, the
Environmental Management Framework and_ the
Involuntary Resettlement Framework;

(11) provide, promptly as needed, the resources required for
the purpose;

-ll-

 
(iii) | procure the goods, works, non-consulting services and
consultants’ services to be financed out of the Loan in
accordance with the provisions of this Agreement;

(iv) maintain procedures adequate to enable the Borrower to
monitor and evaluate, in accordance with indicators
acceptable to the Bank, the progress of the Subproject
and the achievement of its objectives;

(v) provide information in a timely manner upon request to
reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related
to the Subproject;

(vi) enable the Borrower and the Bank to inspect the
Subproject, its operation and any relevant records and
documents; and

(vii) prepare and furnish to the Project Implementation Unit
and the Bank all such information as the Borrower or the
Bank shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing.

The Borrower shall, through SEAPEC, exercise its rights and carry out its
obligations under each Grant Agreement and/or Implementation Agreement in
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall, through SEAPEC, not assign, amend, abrogate, waive,
terminate or fail to enforce any Grant Agreement and/or Implementation
Agreement or any of its provisions.

Technical Cooperation Agreements

To carry out the Project, the Borrower, through SEAPEC, shall comply with the
Technical Cooperation Agreements containing terms and conditions approved by
the Bank as further specified in the Project Operational Manual with,
respectively, EMATER and PESAGRO. The Borrower shall cause SEAPEC and
respectively EMATER and PESAGRO within their responsibilities to comply
with said Technical Cooperation Agreements until the end of the execution of
their respective Components of the Project.

The Borrower shall, through SEAPEC, exercise its rights and carry out its
obligations under each Technical Cooperation Agreement in such manner as to
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive, terminate or fail to enforce any
Technical Cooperation Agreement or any of its provisions.

_12-
/- ©
f Ag >)
‘ wy

Safeguards
Environmental Management

The Borrower shall, through SEAPEC: (a) implement the Project, and when
applicable cause the Subprojects to be implemented, in accordance with the
Environmental Management Framework (including provisions for natural
habitats, pest management, forests and chance finding of cultural property); (b)
when applicable, furnish to the Bank for its approval a specific environmental
assessment for each Subproject; and (c) cause Beneficiaries to carry out the
requirements specified by such specific environmental assessment in accordance
with its terms.

Involuntary Resettlement

The Borrower shall, through SEAPEC: (a) implement the Project and, when
applicable cause the Subprojects to be implemented, in accordance with the
provisions of the Involuntary Resettlement Framework; (b) when applicable,
furnish to the Bank for its approval a specific involuntary resettlement plan for
each Subproject; and (c) cause Beneficiaries to carry out the requirements
specified by such specific involuntary resettlement plan in accordance with its
terms.

Section II. Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

A.

Project Reports

The Borrower, through the Project Implementation Unit, shall monitor and
evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance
with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of
the performance indicators set forth in the Project Operational Manual. Each
Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than one month after the end of the period covered
by such report.

Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General

Conditions.

Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five days after the end of

-13-
each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering
the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.

The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower,
commencing with the fiscal year in which the first withdrawal was made for the
Project. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished
to the Bank not later than six months after the end of such period.

Section ITI. Procurement

General

Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set
forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the
provisions of this Section.

Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.

Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, [IV and V of the Consultant
Guidelines, as the case may be.

Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services

International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.

Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than
International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, works and
non-consulting services. The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances
under which such methods may be used.

-14-

(<P
0

G ay Cy
™:
VA

Procurement Method

(a) National Competitive Bidding (including the method known as “pregdo

eletronico”, as provided in the Guarantor’s Law n° 10520, of July 17, 2002,

under any e-procurement system acceptable to the Bank), subject to the

following additional procedure, namely, that the bidding documents shall be
ptable to the Bank.

(b) Shopping (including the method know as “pregdo eletrénico”’, as provided
in the Guarantor’s Law n° 10520, of July 17, 2002, under any e-procurement
system acceptable to the Bank).

c) Direct Contracting

(d) Community Participation in Procurement procedures, as set forth in the
Procurement Plan

 

Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services

Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.

Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services. The Procurement Plan
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used.

 
 

(d) Single-Source Selection of consulting firms
(e) Procedures set forth in Paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for
the Selection of Individual Consultants

(f) Single Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants

 
         
      
     

    

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the

Bank’s Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.

_15-
Section IV. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A, General

1. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.

2. The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.

Amount of the Loan Percentage of
Allocated Expenditures to be
(expressed in USD) financed

(inclusive of Taxes)

(1) Goods, works, non- consulting
services, consultants’ services and 24,100,000
Training under the Project

(except as covered by

(2) Grants for Subprojects in 100% of the amounts

respect of Components 65,900,000 disbursed for Grants for
1.2 (a) and 2.1 of the Components 1.2(a) and
Project 2.1 of the Project

(3) Goods, works, non- consulting
services and consultants’ services 10,000,000
for Subprojects under

Component 1.2 (b) of the

Project

TOTAL AMOUNT 100,000,000 Ps

3. For the purposes of this table the term “Training” means expenditures (other than
for consultants’ and non-consultants’ services) incurred in connection with the
carrying out of training, seminars, and workshops under the Project, including the
reasonable travel and accommodation cost and per-diem of the trainers and
trainees, training materials, rental costs and tuitions.

 

-16-

PG
="
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made from the Loan Account until the Bank has received
payment in full of the Front-end Fee.

The Closing Date is November 30, 2018. The Bank shall only grant an extension
of the Closing Date after the Guarantor’s Ministry of Finance has informed the
Bank that it agrees with such extension.

Section V. Other Undertakings

l.

The Borrower shall maintain the independent auditors needed to comply with
Section II.B.3 above, under terms of reference and with qualifications and
experience satisfactory to the Bank and in accordance with the provisions of
Section III above.

Without limitation to the provisions of Section 5.08 (b) of the General
Conditions, the Borrower shall by November 30, 2015, or such other date as the
Bank shall agree upon:

(a) carry out jointly with the Bank, a mid-term review of the implementation
of operations under the Project (Midterm Review). The Midterm Review
shall cover the progress achieved in the implementation of the Project;
and

(b) following such Midterm Review, act promptly and diligently to take any
corrective action as shall be recommended by the Bank.

The Borrower shall, through SEAPEC, finalize in form and_ substance
satisfactory to the Bank:

(a) by December 31, 2013, the establishment of at least two consortia of
municipalities participating in the Project to jointly prepare and
implement rural roads rehabilitation and maintenance plans in the terms
and conditions specified in the Project Operational Manual; and

(b) by June 30, 2014, the transfer of road equipment and machinery acquired
under the Project to such consortia.

-17-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule

l. The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment
Date (“Installment Share”). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b)
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule,
to which a Currency Conversion applies.

Principal Payment Date Installment Share
Expressed as a Percentage
On each February 15 and August 15
0
Beginning on August 15, 2018 1.0%
through Februa
On each February 15 and August 15
0
Beginning on August 15, 2020 0.5%
through August 15, 2029
On each February 15 and August 15
0
Beginning on February 15, 2030 14.0%
through August 15, 2030
On each February 15 and August 15
Beginning on February 15, 2031 10.0%
through August 15, 2031

On each February 15 and August 15

. 5%
Beginning on February 15, 2032

through August 15, 2032

On each February 15 and August 15
0
Beginning on February 15, 2034 3.57%
through August 15, 2034

-18-

7.

 
On each February 15 and August 15

Beginning on February 15, 2035
through August 15, 2035

 

2. If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:

(a) To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.

(b) Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by
a fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the table
in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment
Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original Installment
Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, such amounts repayable
to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this
Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.

3. (a) Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the
second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable
on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal.

(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on
or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-paragraph shall
no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.

4, Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs | and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable
on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination
immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (a) the exchange rate that reflects the

-19-
amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency
Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (b) if the Bank so determines in
accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen

Rate.

-20-

co

I

wy

d

oa

nM

/

)
ae
P

d

Leh
oe *
%. v

APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions

l. “Annual Operating Plan” means any annual operating plan referred to in Section
].A.8 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

2. “Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006, and revised in January 2011.

3. “Beneficiaries” means:

(a) for a Productive Subproject and an Environmental Subproject, an
individual or group of individuals living in a rural area, a small farmer,
an agricultural producer, a rural community organization, or a rural
cooperative in the Borrower’s territory;

(b) for a Rural Roads Subproject, a rural municipality in the Borrower’s
territory ;
(c) for an Institutional Subproject, a Borrower’s agency eligible as per the

Project Operational Manual; and
(d) for a Structuring Subproject:

(i) for a productive activity as those of Productive Subprojects
specified in the Project Operational Manual, groups of small
producers organized in associations, cooperatives or other
legally registered groups across several micro-catchments and
/or municipalities, and small and medium enterprises associated
with groups of small producers; and

(ii) for an environmental activity as those of Environmental
Subprojects specified in the Project Operational Manual,
individual farmers organized in formal or informal groups;

all with a legal personality in accordance with the Borrower’s and the
Guarantor’s law, whose status as a Beneficiary has been found eligible in
accordance with the criteria set forth in the Project Operation Manual.

4. “Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to

this Agreement.

-2]-
10.

11.

12.

“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers” dated January 2011.

“EMATER” means Empresa de Assisténcia Técnica e Extensdo Rural do Estado
do Rio de Janeiro, the Borrower’s agency for rural extension as established and
operating under the Borrower’s Decree No. 564, dated January 26, 1976.

“Environmental Management Framework” means the Borrower’s document
dated October 8, 2008, as revised on February 1, 2012 (satisfactory to the Bank),
and published and _ available to the public on the website
http://www.microbacias.rj.gov.br/biblioteca_projeto.htm which contains the
environmental principles and policies covering, among others, those to address
natural habitats, forest impacts and pest management, and which shall apply to
the implementation of the Project, including, when applicable, the preparation
and carrying out of any Subproject.

“Environmental Subprojects” means eligible subprojects aimed at improving the
adoption of agro-ecological and environmentally-sound practices as endorsed by
the pertinent Micro-catchment Development Committee and as approved by the
Borrower through the Project Implementation Unit and the Bank in accordance
with relevant provisions of the Project Operational Manual and to be partly
financed with a Grant under a Grant Agreement for the activities set forth in
Component 1.2 of the Project and to be carried out by Beneficiaries and/or
Structuring Subproject Beneficiaries, all within the territory of Borrower.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated March 12, 2012.

“Grants” means grants to be made by the Borrower to Beneficiaries for the
financing of Subprojects other than Rural Roads Subprojects.

“Grant Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in Section I.C.2 (a)
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Implementation Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in Section
I.C.2 (b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Institutional Subprojects” means eligible subprojects aimed at effectively
responding to rural sector demands, providing better services and coordinating
with other public and private sector stakeholders as endorsed by the State
Sustainable Rural Development Council and as approved by the Bank for the
activities set forth in Component 2.1 of the Project, and to be carried out by
Beneficiaries of Institutional Subprojects.

-22-
~~
oO

PG
< 40

18.

19.

20.

21.

22.

“Institutional Sustainability Plan” means a document found satisfactory in form
and substance to the Bank, called Plano de Sustentabilidade Institucional to be
prepared by the Borrower under Component 2.1 of the Project in accordance with
provisions of the Project Operational Manual to design strategies and identify
Subprojects to strengthen the capacity of SEAPEC and its agencies.

“Involuntary Resettlement Framework” means the Borrower’s document dated
October 8, 2008, as revised on February 1, 2012 (satisfactory to the Bank) and
published and available to the public on the website
http://www.microbacias.rj.gov.br/biblioteca_projeto.htm, which contains the
resettlement principles and policies that shall apply to the implementation of the
Project including, when applicable, preparation and carrying out of any
Subproject.

“Microcatchment Development Committees” means collectively all or any of the
committees to be established in each microcatchment in the Borrower’s territory
(Comité Gestor da Microbacia) in accordance with the Project Operational
Manual in charge of the implementation and follow-up of the Project at the local
level, including the selection and approval of Subprojects.

“Municipal Councils” means Conselhos Municipais de Desenvolvimento Rural
Sustentdvel or any other entity in charge of Project follow-up in the Borrower’s
territory at the municipal level, as operating in accordance with the Project
Operational Manual.

“Original Loan Agreement” means the loan agreement for the Original Project
between the Bank and the Borrower, dated December 14, 2009, as amended on
November 3, 2011.

“Original Project” means the Project described in Schedule 1 to the Original
Loan Agreement.

“PESAGRO” means Empresa de Pesquisa Agropecuaria do Estado do Rio de
Janeiro, the Borrower’s State Agricultural Research Enterprise as established and
operating under the Borrower’s Decree No 75, dated January 29, 1975.

“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers” dated January 2011.

“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project,
dated February 24, 2012, approved by the Bank on March 5, 2012, and referred
to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the
Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in
accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.

23 -
23.

24.

25.

26.

27.

“Productive Subprojects” means eligible subprojects aimed at improving
sustainable and productive farming systems as endorsed by the pertinent
Microcatchment Development Committee and as approved by the Borrower
through the Project Implementation Unit and the Bank in accordance with
relevant provisions of the Project Operational Manual and to be partly financed
with a Grant under a Grant Agreement for the activities set forth in Component
1.2 of the Project and to be carried out by Beneficiaries of Productive
Subprojects and/or Beneficiaries of Structuring Subprojects.

“Project Implementation Unit” means the Project implementation unit referred to
in Section [1.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, established within the
administrative structure of SDS in charge of the daily implementation of the
Project as further detailed in the Project Operational Manual.

“Project Implementation Unit’s Regulation” means the Borrower’s Decree No.
41850, dated May 5, 2009, satisfactory to the Bank.

“Project Operational Manual” means the operational manual for the Project,
satisfactory to the Bank adopted by the Borrower through SEAPEC Resolution
No. 66 dated May 14, 2009, as amended, which contains, inter alia: (i) the terms
of reference, functions and responsibilities for the personnel of the Project
Implementation Unit in charge of daily Project coordination and monitoring; (ii)
the procedures for procurement of works, goods, non-consulting services and
consultants’ services for the Project and for the Subprojects, as well as for the
Project financial management audits and procurement audits of the Subprojects;
(111) flow and disbursement arrangements of Project funds, including the Project
performance indicators; (iv) the eligibility criteria for the Subprojects, their
selection and approval processes, the Restrictive List, as well as model forms for
Grant Agreements; (v) the Annual Operating Plan for the first year of the Project;
(vi) the Environmental Management Framework and the Involuntary
Resettlement Framework; (vii) the terms and conditions for the transfer of road
equipment and machinery (patrulha mecanizada) from SEAPEC to selected
consortia of municipalities in the Borrower’s territory as per Section V.3 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and (viii) the model form for institutional
arrangements, and subsequent institutional arrangements as per Section I.A.7 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Regional Development Councils” means Conselhos  Regionais de
Desenvolvimento Rural Sustentavel, in charge of Project follow-up in the
Borrower’s territory at the regional or inter-municipal level, to be created by the
Borrower in accordance with the Project Operational Manual.

24 -

> Ss
‘ ; 400”
Pp

——

R/as.
is

C40.

28.

29.

30.

31.

32.

33.

34.

35.

“Restrictive List” means a list of activities to be annexed to the Project
Operational Manual and detailing all the types of Subprojects which cannot
benefit from financing under the Project.

“Rural Roads Subprojects” means eligible subprojects aimed at improving the
erosion control and rehabilitation and maintenance of rural roads as endorsed by
the pertinent Microcatchment Development Committee and as approved by the
Borrower through the Project Implementation Unit and the Bank in accordance
with relevant provisions of the Project Operational Manual and to be partly
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan for the activities set forth in Component
1.2 (b) of the Project and to be carried out by Beneficiaries of Rural Road
Subprojects.

“SDS” means Superintendéncia de Desenvolvimento Sustentavel, the Borrower’s
superintendence on sustainable development within the administrative structure
of SEAPEC, as established and operating under the Borrower’s Decree No.
40999, October 26, 2007.

“SEAPEC” means Secretaria de Estado de Agricultura e Pecudria, the
Borrower’s Secretariat for agriculture and livestock, as established and operating
under the Borrower’s Decree No. 42777, dated December 30, 2010.

“Serrana Region” means the administrative region of the Borrower’s territory
composed of the following 14 municipalities: Bom Jardim, Cantagalo, Carmo,
Cordeiro, Duas Barras, Macuco, Nova Friburgo, Petrdépolis, Santa Maria
Madalena, SAo José do Vale do Rio Preto, Sao Sebastiao do Alto, Sumidouro,
Teresopolis and Trajano de Moraes.

“State Sustainable Rural Development Council” means a council (Conselho
Estadual de Desenvolvimento Rural Sustentavel) created through the Borrower’s
Decree No. 27025, dated August 25, 2000, in charge of the general oversight of
the Project, including the approval of the Annual Operating Plans.

“Structuring Subproject” means an Environmental Subproject or a Productive
Subproject as endorsed by the Regional Development Council and as approved
by the Borrower through the Project Implementation Unit and the Bank in
accordance with relevant provisions of the Project Operational Manual and to be
partly financed with a Grant under a Grant Agreement for the activities set forth
in Component 1.2 (a) of the Project and to be carried out by Beneficiaries of
Structuring Subprojects.

“Subprojects” means collectively Productive Subprojects, Environmental

Subprojects, Rural Roads Subprojects, Structuring Subprojects and/or
Institutional Subprojects (as the case may be).

-25-
36.

37.

“Sustainable Services Research Network System” means Sistema de Pesquisa,
TInovagées, Tecnologias e Servigos Sustentaveis em Rede, the Borrower’s network
system for research, innovation, technologies and sustainable services to be
established under the Project in the Borrower’s territory to facilitate the adoption
by small farmers of sustainable and innovative technologies to improve
productive systems and overcome value chains bottlenecks.

“Technical Cooperation Agreements” means all or any of the agreements referred
to in Section I.D.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and executed between the
Borrower, through SEAPEC, and respectively EMATER (for the implementation
of Components 1, 2 and 3 of the Project) and PESAGRO (for the implementation
of Components | and 2 of the Project), both dated May 25, 2009.

- 26 -
