Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

- ae
OFFICIAL |
| DOCUMENTS /

Mit

 

LOAN NUMBER 8277-KZ

Loan Agreement

(Second Irrigation and Drainage Improvement Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN

and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated 7Hok (7 29 , 2014
LOAN AGREEMENT

Agreement dated Le 2 / 29 _, 2014, between REPUBLIC OF

KAZAKHSTAN (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK ~— FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”). The Borrower and the Bank
hereby agree as follows:

1.01.

1.02.

2.01.

2.02.

2.03.

2.04.

2.05.

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IT — LOAN

The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred and two million nine
hundred and two thousand four hundred and forty Dollars ($102,902,440), as
such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion
in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to
assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement
(“Project”).

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee
not later than 60 days after the Effective Date.

The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.

The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year.
2.06.

2.07.

3.01.

3.02.

4.01.

_2-

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

(a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (i1) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa, or from a Variable
Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed
Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate.

(b) Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.

ARTICLE II — PROJECT

The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through the CWR in accordance
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.

Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:

(a) The Operational Manual, satisfactory to the Bank, has been adopted by
the Borrower.

(b) The PMU has been established by the Borrower, within the CWR, with
composition, resources and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank,
including the selection of a financial management specialist and a
disbursement specialist.
4.02.

5.01.

5.02.

5.03.

_3-

(c) The Borrower has signed a contract, with terms of reference satisfactory
to the Bank, for the installation of a fully automated project accounting
system capable of generating interim unaudited financial reports.

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred eighty (180) days after the
date of this Agreement.

ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance.
The Borrower’s Address is:

Ministry of Finance
11 Pobedy Street

Astana 010000

Republic of Kazakhstan

Telex: Facsimile:
265126 (FILIN) (7) (3172) 717785

The Bank’s Address is:

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America

Cable address: Telex: Facsimile:

INTBAFRAD 248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 64145(MCI)
_4-

AGREED at AST Ki S, “bite O , as of the day and year first above
written. QG2Qk A 4

REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN

Authorized Representative

Name: kb zr Syfltenor

Title: 2p: Lojme-Sys £e/
LIU fi STCR of PIANC
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT

oo ; | o—
Authorized Representative

Name: Sebpem PLE O Gp
Title: Couple JHOL0 ee

   
._5-

SCHEDULE 1
Project Description

The objective of the Project is to improve irrigation and drainage service delivery
to support farmers in the Project areas.

The Project consists of the following parts:

Part |: Rehabilitation and Modernization of Irrigation and Drainage Systems
Infrastructure

(a) Carry out rehabilitation and modernization of existing irrigation and drainage
infrastructure on approximately 113,000 hectares.

(b) Support the design and supervision associated with the rehabilitation and
modernization of irrigation and drainage infrastructure, including preparing Site-
specific Dam Safety Plans.

Part 2: Sustainable Management, Operation and Maintenance of Irrigation and Drainage
Systems

(a) Develop and strengthen rural consumer cooperatives and water-management
organizations through: (i) supporting the establishment of the enabling training
and support units; (11) supporting participatory irrigation development and
management activities including related water-sector studies and access to credit
and leasing resources; and (ili) enhancing management, operation and
maintenance activities, including water-monitoring tools.

(b) Support modernization and strengthening of on-farm water management at the
rural consumer cooperatives level.

(c) Support modernization and strengthening of the management, operation and
maintenance of the main irrigation and drainage system.

Part 3: Agricultural Development

(a) Strengthen farmers capacity through: (i) improving of farm management and land
use; (ii) supporting knowledge transfer on innovative agro-techniques; and (iil)
supporting agro-cooperatives, including establishing and strengthening the
enabling farmers services centers.

(b) Support farming and irrigation mechanization through: (i) developing water-
saving techniques; (ii) facilitating access to maintenance equipment for the on-
farm irrigation systems; and (iii) strengthening the related advisory facilities.
-6-

Part 4: Project Management, Technical Assistance and Training

Support the PMU in project management, administration, coordination,
procurement, financial management, including the monitoring and evaluation of Project
impacts, and preparation and implementation of EAs, and audits.
_7-

SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Section I. Implementation Arrangements

A.

Institutional Arrangements

The Borrower shall carry out the day-to-day Project activities, through the CWR,

in accordance with the following institutional and other arrangements:

1.

B.

The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the requirements,
criteria, organizational arrangements and operational procedures set forth in the
Operational Manual and shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any
provisions of the Operational Manual without prior approval of the Bank.

The Borrower shall maintain in Astana, at all times during the implementation of
the Project, the PMU, within the CWR, with a composition, resources and terms
of reference, all satisfactory to the Bank.

No later than ninety (90) days from the Effective Date, the Borrower shall
establish and maintain in Shymkent, at all times during the implementation of the
Project, an office of the PMU, with a composition, resources and terms of
reference, all satisfactory to the Bank.

Prior to the award of a contract for works for the respective irrigation and
drainage system, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank for its prior
review and approval, a design report for each irrigation and drainage system
under Part | of the Project, which shall include: (a) a description of the current
state of the irrigation and drainage system; (b) a description, bill of quantities,
cost estimates and an economic analysis of the proposed irrigation and drainage
system rehabilitation and modernization; (c) information on the rural consumer
cooperatives that are located within the sub-project areas, including information
on their institutional and financial status, implementation capacity, their
operation and maintenance plan, and an estimate of the required irrigation service
fee; and (d) such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.

Anti-Corruption

The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the

provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
Safeguards

The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the requirements,
criteria, Organizational arrangements and operational procedures set forth in the
Framework EMP, the site-specific EAs, the Dam Safety Plan and the applicable
Site-specific Dam Safety Plans and shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any
provisions of the Framework EMP, the site-specific EAs, the Dam Safety Plan, or
the applicable Site-specific Dam Safety Plans, without prior approval of the Bank.

Prior to the commencement of any civil works under Part | of the Project, the
Borrower shall prepare for each site an EA, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.

Prior to the commencement of any civil works under Part 1(a) of the Project, if
applicable pursuant to the guidelines set for the purpose in the Project Operational
Manual, the Borrower shall prepare a Site-specific Dam Safety Plan, in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank.

The Borrower shall ensure that all measures identified and described in the site-
specific EAs and the Site-specific Dam Safety Plans are taken in a timely manner.

For the purposes of carrying out Part | of the Project, there shall be no land
acquisition under the Project resulting in Resettlement.

Section II. Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

A.

l.

Project Reports

The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Bank. Each Project
Report shall cover the period of one calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to
the Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of the period covered by
such report.

Within three years of the Effective Date, the Borrower shall carry out jointly with
the Bank, a mid-term review of the progress made in carrying out the Project
(hereinafter referred to as the Midterm Review). The Midterm Review shall
cover, amongst other things:

(a) progress made in meeting the Project’s objective; and

(b) overall Project performance against Project performance indicators.
9.

The Borrower shall prepare, at least four (4) weeks prior to the Midterm Review
and furnish to the Bank, a separate report describing the status of implementation
of each component of the Project and a summary report of Project
implementation generally.

Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits

The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.

Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
prepare, and furnish to the Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end
of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project
covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.

The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower.
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the
Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.

Section ITI. Procurement

General

Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.

Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.

Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
D.

-10-

Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services

International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding procedures.

Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than
International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, works and
non-consulting services. The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances
under which such methods may be used.

   
   
 

Procurement Method

a) National Competitive Biddin
the Attachment to this Schedule 2

ee eee ee  ——————
.
. «

    

   

subject to additional provisions set forth in

         

(c) Direct Contracting

Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services

Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.

Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services. The Procurement Plan
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used.

Procurement Method
(a) Quality-Based Selection
(b) Selection under a Fixed Budget

(c) Least Cost Selection

(d) Selection Based on Consultant’s Qualifications

(e) Single Source Selection
(f) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines
for the Selection of Individual Consultants

(2) Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants

 

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s
Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.
-ll-

Section IV. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. General

l. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.

2. The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.

  
   
   
 

  
   
   
     
 

    
   

  
 
 
  

Amount of the Percentage of
Loan Expenditures to be
Category Allocated financed
(expressed in USD) (inclusive of Taxes)

  
  
 

(1) Works under Part | of the 93,000,000 30%
Project

(2) Goods, consultants’ services,
non-consulting services,
Training and Operating Costs 9,902,440 30%
under Parts 1, 2, 3 and 4 of
the Project

TOTAL AMOUNT 102,902,440 Po

“Operating Costs” means incremental operating costs incurred by CWR on
account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, as approved by the
Bank on the basis of budgets acceptable to the Bank, which would not have been incurred
absent the Project and include, inter alia, the costs of: (i) staff costs of the PMU; (ii)
maintenance and operation of equipment and vehicles procured or used for the
management of the Project; (iii) travel costs and per diems; (iv) consumable office
supplies; (v) communication, printing and publications; (vi) costs of translation and
interpretation; (vii) operating costs of the farmers service centers; (viii) operating costs of
demonstration sites under Part 3(a)(i) of the Project; (ix) operating costs of the system
maintenance machinery and irrigation system maintenance machinery under Part 3(b) of
the Project; and (x) bank charges; and other miscellaneous costs as may be agreed with
the Bank from time to time.

  
       
  
 

-12-

“Training” means training activities (other than consultants’ services) to be
carried out under the Project, as approved by the Bank on the basis of annual training and
study tour plans acceptable to the Bank, including the reasonable and necessary local and
international travel and visa expenses incurred by participants in training workshops, as
well as lodging, subsistence, local and international per diem allowances according to the
guidelines of the Borrower, registration, tuition and facilitators’ fees, minor
organizational expenses (including costs of stationery, handouts and training materials),
translation and interpretation costs, facility rental costs, and other expenditures directly
relating to the training workshop and study tour activity, as may be agreed with the
Borrower.

B. Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

1. Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made:
(a) from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the

Front-end Fee; or

(b) for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement; or

(c) under Category 1, unless an EA and, if applicable, a Site-specific Dam
Safety Plan, have been prepared by the Borrower, in connection with the

site for which withdrawal for expenditures has been submitted.

2. The Closing Date is December 31, 2021.
_13-

Attachment
to
SCHEDULE 2

The procurement procedure to be followed for National Competitive Bidding
shall be the “Public Procurement through Tender” procedures set forth in the Law of the
Borrower on Public Procurement No. 303-III, dated July 21, 2007 as amended as of
January 8, 2013, No. 63-V; provided, however, that such procedure shall be subject to the
provisions of Section I, Paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of Section III, and Appendix | of the
Procurement Guidelines and the following additional provisions:

(a)

(b)

(d)

(e)

(f)

Eligibility: The eligibility of bidders to participate in a procurement
process and to be awarded a Bank-financed contract shall be as defined
under Section I of the Procurement Guidelines; accordingly, no bidder or
potential bidder shall be declared ineligible for contracts financed by the
Bank for reasons other than those provided in Section I of the
Procurement Guidelines. Foreign bidders shall be allowed to participate
in NCB procedures, and foreign bidders shall not be obligated to partner
with local bidders in order to participate in a procurement process.

Registration: Bidding shall not be restricted to pre-registered firms, and
foreign bidders shall not be required to be registered with local
authorities as a prerequisite for submitting bids.

Preferences: No preference of any kind shall be applied in bid evaluation
on the basis of bidder nationality; origin of goods, services or labor; local
content; citizen degree of ownership; and/or any other preferential
programs.

Bidding Documents: Procuring entities shall use the appropriate standard
bidding documents, including contractual provisions, satisfactory to the
Bank.

Cost Estimates: Cost estimates shall be confidential and shall not be
disclosed to prospective bidders.

Bid Validity: An extension of bid validity, if justified by exceptional
circumstances, may be requested in writing from all bidders before the
expiration date and for a minimum period required to complete the
evaluation or award a contract, provided that such extension shall cover
only the minimum period required to complete the evaluation and/or
award a contract, but not to exceed four (4) weeks. No further
extensions shall be requested without the prior written concurrence of the
Bank.
(g)

(h)

(i)

Q)

(k)

_14-

Bid Submission and Bid Opening: Prospective bidders shall be given at
least thirty (30) days from the date of publication of the invitation to bid
or the date of availability of the bidding documents, whichever is later, to
prepare and submit bids. Bids shall be opened in public immediately
after the deadline for their submission. A copy of the bid opening
minutes shall be promptly provided to all bidders who submitted bids,
and to the World Bank with respect to contracts subject to the Bank’s
prior review.

Qualification: Qualification criteria shall be clearly specified in the
bidding documents. All criteria so specified, and only such specified
criteria, shall be used to determine whether a bidder is qualified.
Qualification shall be assessed on a “pass or fail” basis, and merit points
shall not be used. Such assessment shall be based entirely upon the
bidder’s or prospective bidder’s capability and resources to effectively
perform the contract, taking into account objective and measurable
factors, including: (i) relevant general and specific experience, and
satisfactory past performance and successful completion of similar
contracts over a given period; (11) financial position; and where relevant
(iit) capability of construction and/or manufacturing facilities.

Prequalification procedures and documents satisfactory to the World
Bank shall be used for large, complex and/or specialized works contracts.
Verification of the information upon which a bidder was prequalified,
including current commitments and the bidder’s capability with respect
to personnel and equipment, shall be carried out at the time of contract
award.

Where prequalification is not used, the qualification of the bidder who is
recommended for award of contract shall be assessed by post-
qualification, applying the qualification criteria stated in the bidding
documents.

Bid Evaluation: Evaluation criteria shall be clearly specified in the
bidding documents. Evaluation of bids shal! be made in strict adherence
to the quantifiable criteria declared in the bidding documents.
Evaluation criteria other than price shall be quantified in monetary terms.
Merit points and bracketing shall not be used, and no minimum point or
percentage value shall be assigned to the significance of price, in bid
evaluation. Bidders shall not be eliminated on the basis of minor,
nonmaterial deviations.
(I)

(m)

(n)

(0)

(p)

(q)

(r)

-15-

Contracts shall be awarded to the qualified bidder whose bid has been
determined: (i) to be substantially responsive to the bidding documents;
and (ii) to offer the lowest-evaluated cost. No negotiation as to the price
or substance of the bid shall take place.

Rejection of Bids and Re-Bidding: No bids shall be rejected solely
because they fall below or exceed the estimated cost or outside of a range
or “bracket” of bid values. All bids (or the sole bid if only one bid is
received) shall not be rejected, the procurement process shall not be
cancelled, and new bids shall not be solicited without the World Bank’s
prior written concurrence.

Guarantees: Guarantees shall be in the format and have the required
period of validity specified in the bidding documents.

Confidentiality: The process of bid evaluation shall be confidential until
the publication of contract award.

Electronic Procurement Systems: Electronic procurement systems may
be used, provided that the World Bank is satisfied with the adequacy of
the systems.

Fraud and Corruption: In accordance with the Procurement Guidelines,
each bidding document and contract shall include provisions stating the
World Bank’s policy to sanction firms or individuals, found to have
engaged in fraud and/or corruption as defined in the Procurement
Guidelines.

Inspection and Audit Rights: In accordance with the Procurement
Guidelines, each bidding document and contract shall include provisions
stating the World Bank’s policy with respect to inspection and audit of
accounts, records and other documents relating to the submission of bids
and contract performance.
-16-

SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule

I. The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date (“Installment Share’). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.

Principal Payment Date Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)

On each June 15 and December 15
Beginning December 15, 2021
through June 15, 2031 5%

2. If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:

   
 

 
     

(a) To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph |
of this Schedule.

(b) Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share’’)
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
_17-

(a) Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.

(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs | and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (1) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.

If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.
 

-18-

APPENDIX
Definitions

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 201 1.

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.

“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers”, dated January 201 1.

“CWR” means Committee for Water Resources, established under the
Borrower’s Ministry of Environment and Water Resources, pursuant to
Presidential Decree No. 466, of January 16, 2013, and Government Resolution
No. 172, of February 25, 2013, or any successors thereto.

“Dam Safety Plan” means the detailed plan, dated December |, 2007, describing
the priority safety measures to be implemented in the course of rehabilitation of
each irrigation dam under Part 1 of the Project, including the detailed
investigation of their performance and safety and the institutional arrangements
for the operation and maintenance of each such dam.

‘Site-specific Dam Safety Plan” means a site-specific plan to be carried out by
the Borrower and satisfactory to the Bank, verifying that all required dam safety
interventions have been duly undertaken by the Borrower.

“FA” or environmental assessment means a site-specific study, satisfactory to the
Bank, to be prepared by the Borrower pursuant to Section LC. of Schedule 2 of
this Agreement, in respect of works to be undertaken by the Borrower under Part
1 of the Project, consisting of, inter alia: (i) a description of the site where the
Project activities are to be carried out; (ii) the potential and actual adverse social
and environmental impacts of the activities referred to under paragraph (1) above;
and (iii) a site-specific EMP describing the environmental mitigation,
monitoring, and institutional measures required for the site pursuant to the EA
and the Framework EMP; and “EAs” refers to more than one EA.

“EMP” means an environmental management plan, satisfactory to the Bank, to
be prepared by the Borrower as part of the site-specific EA, pursuant to Section
I.C. of Schedule 2 of this Agreement; and “EMPs” refers to more than one EMP.
11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

-19-

‘Framework EMP” means the Borrower’s environmental and social management
framework, titled “Environmental Management Plan’, satisfactory to the Bank,
dated December 1, 2007, updated on May 27, 2013, and re-disclosed on the
CWR’s website on July 10, 2013 and at the Bank’s Infoshop on June 7, 2013,
describing the rules, guidelines and procedures to assess environmental impacts
and defining measures to reduce, mitigate or offset adverse environmental
impacts associated with the implementation of activities under the Project,
together with adequate institutional, monitoring and reporting arrangements
capable of ensuring proper implementation of, and regular feedback on
compliance with, its terms, as the same may be amended and supplemented from
time to time with the Bank’s prior written approval.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated March 12, 2012.

“Operational Manual” means the manual, satisfactory to the Bank, to be prepared
by the Borrower pursuant to Section 4.01(a) of this Agreement, setting forth the
operational and administrative responsibilities, procedures and rules for the
implementation of the Project, including a manual of financial procedures,
implementation plan, sub-project screening criteria, and a charter of accounts,
consistent with the provisions of this Agreement and with the national laws and
regulations of the Borrower, as the same may be amended and supplemented
from time to time with the Bank’s prior written approval.

“PMU” means the Project Management Unit to be established within the CWR
pursuant to Section 4.01(b) of this Agreement, with responsibility for day-to-day
management of the Project.

“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers”, dated January 2011.

“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project,
dated May 15, 2013 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.

“Ministry of Environment and Water Resources” means the Borrower’s Ministry
of Environment and Water Resources, or any successors thereto.
16.

_20 -

“Resettlement” means: (i) the involuntary taking of land, including anything
growing on or permanently affixed to such land, such as buildings and crops,
resulting in: (A) relocation or loss of shelter; (B) loss of assets or access to assets;
or (C) loss of income sources or means of livelihood, whether or not the affected
persons must move to another location; or (ii) the involuntary restriction of
access to legally designated parks and protected areas resulting in adverse
impacts on the livelihoods of the affected persons, and encompassing restrictions
on the use of resources imposed on people living outside a park or protected area,
or on those who continue living inside the park or protected area during and after
Project implementation.
