Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

OFFICIAL |
| DOCUMENTS

_ Mlb

 

LOAN NUMBER 8415-BR

Loan Agreement

(Bahia Sustainable Rural Development Project — Projeto de Desenvolvimento Rural
Sustentavel do Estado da Bahia — PDRS (Bahia Produtiva))

between

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

and

STATE OF BAHIA

Dated Jaquet AJ , 2014
My
SOY
is

LOAN AGREEMENT

Agreement dated Maier 2014, between the INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”), and the STATE OF

BAHIA (“Borrower”). The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree as follows:

1.01.

1.02.

2.02.

2.03.

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) with the
modifications set forth in the Appendix of this Agreement constitute an integral
part of this Agreement.

Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.

ARTICLE II — LOAN

The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred and fifty million
Dollars ($150,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08
of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”).

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.

The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread:
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.
2.05.

2.06.

2.07.

2.08.

(a)

(b)

If on any given day, the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure
Limit (as said terms are defined in sub-paragraphs (b)(ii) and (b)(iii) of
this Section), the Borrower shall pay to the Bank a surcharge at the rate
of one half of one percent (0.5%) per annum of the Allocated Excess
Exposure Amount (as defined in sub-paragraph (b)(i) of this Section) for
each said day (“Exposure Surcharge”). The Exposure Surcharge (if any)
shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date.

For purposes of this Section the following terms have the meanings set
forth below:

(i) “Allocated Excess Exposure Amount” means for each day
during which the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure
Limit, the product of: (A) the total amount of said excess; and
(B) the ratio of all (or, if the Bank so determines, a portion) of
the Loan to the aggregate amount of all (or the equivalent
portions) of the loans made by the Bank to the Borrower, the
Guarantor and to other borrowers guaranteed by the Guarantor
that are also subject to an exposure surcharge, as said excess and
ratio are reasonably determined from time to time by the Bank.

(11) “Standard Exposure Limit” means the standard limit on the
Bank’s financial exposure to the Guarantor which, if exceeded,
would subject the Loan to the Exposure Surcharge, as
determined from time to time by the Bank.

(iii) “Total Exposure” means for any given day, the Bank’s total
financial exposure to the Guarantor, as reasonably determined by
the Bank.

The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

(a)

The Borrower may at any time, in each case with prior non-objection of
the Guarantor, through the Secretariat of the National Treasury of the
Guarantor’s Ministry of Finance, request any of the following
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt
management: (i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an
Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to:
(A) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and

2.

q ®
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.

(b) Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.

ARTICLE ITI — PROJECT

3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall cause CAR to carry out the Project with the assistance of
the Cooperating Entity and with the support of: (a) SEAGRI with respect to Part
1 of the Project and (b) CENTRAL and SAAE with respect to Part 2(a) of the
Project, all in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions, and the provisions of the CAR Subsidiary Agreement and the
Cooperation Agreement.

3.02. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK

4.01. The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that CAR
shall have failed to comply with any of its obligations under the CAR Subsidiary
Agreement so as to affect materially and adversely, in the opinion of the Bank,
the Borrower’s ability to perform its obligations under this Agreement.

4.02. The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that the
event specified in paragraph 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for
a period of 120 days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the
Borrower and the Guarantor.
5.01.

5.02.

5.03.

6.01.

6.02.

ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that
the CAR Subsidiary Agreement has been signed by the parties thereto, in a form
and substance satisfactory to the Bank.

The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely that:
(a) the Loan has been duly registered with the Guarantor’s Central Bank; and

(b) the CAR Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the
Borrower and CAR and is legally binding upon the Borrower and CAR in
accordance with their terms.

Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank's approval of the Loan
which expire on December 24, 2015.

ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
The Borrower’s Representative 1s its Governor.
The Borrower’s Address is:

3* Avenida, N° 390, Plataforma IV,

Prédio da Governadoria, 3° Andar,

Centro Administrativo da Bahia-CAB, Paralela,
Salvador, Bahia

41745-005

Brazil

Facsimile: (55-71) 3371-0610

For financial matters:

Secretaria da Fazenda

2? Avenida, n° 260 — Centro Administrativo da Bahia
41745-003 — Salvador, Bahia

Brazil

Facsimile: (55-71) 3115- 8754
With copy to:

SEPLAN — Secretaria do Planejamento do Estado da Bahia
2° Avenida, n° 250 — Centro Administrativo da Bahia
41745-003 — Salvador — BA

Brazil

Facsimile: (55-71) 3115-3950

CAR — Companhia de Desenvolvimento e Acdo Regional
2° Avenida, n° 250 — Centro Administrativo da Bahia
41745-003 — Salvador — BA

Brazil

Facsimile: (55-71) 3371-0015

SEAIN — Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais do
Ministério do Planejamento, Orgamento e Gestio
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco ‘““K” — 5° andar
70040-906 Brasilia, DF

Brazil

Facsimile: (55-61) 2020-5006
6.03. The Bank’s Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development

1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America

Cable address: Telex: Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 64145(MCI)

i

A ‘3
AGREED at ponhez Shula Loyushre o| Buca as of the
day and year first above written.

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

STATE OF BAHIA

By

 

 

AN ©
\ d

o>
10

one
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description

The objectives of the Project are to increase market integration, net revenues and
food security of organized beneficiaries; as well as to improve access to water supply and
sanitation services of households in Project areas.

The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1: Productive Inclusion and Access to Markets

Increase productive inclusion and access to markets for family farmers and other
disadvantaged populations in the Borrower’s territory, through:

(a) the provision of support to POs and CAs, as the case may be, for (i) the
carrying out of Market-Oriented Subprojects including the preparation
and implementation of Business Plans; and (ii) the carrying out of Social
and Environmental Subprojects including the preparation and
implementation of Investment Plans;

(b) the provision of support to CAR for the implementation of activities to
manage agricultural risks as assessed in the planned Agricultural Risk
Analysis; and

(c) the provision of support to CAR for the construction of warehouses and

other logistic infrastructure to support market access by POs and CAs.

Part 2: Household Water and Sanitation

Support the Borrower’s efforts to improve sanitation conditions and water supply
services access in areas where a pre-established adequate management system is present
and sufficient hydrological resources have been identified, through the provision of
support to: (a) CAR, for the carrying out of WSS Subprojects; and (b) CENTRAL and
SAAE for strengthening their capacity to manage additional water supply systems.

Part 3: Institutional Development, Technical Assistance and Project Management

(a) Provision of technical assistance for the carrying out of the necessary
research and diagnostics in the areas of, inter alia: integration of value
chain activities and market access, vulnerable population participation
and potential social and environmental impacts interventions.
(b)

(c)

(d)

Carrying out of capacity building activities for CAR’s technical staff,
POs, CAs and agencies participating in the Project.

Provision of support for the design and implementation of dissemination
activities of the Project’s processes and results, the mobilization of local
communities and the carrying out of a beneficiary assessment of the
Project.

Provision of support to CAR for the strengthening of its technical and
administrative management capacity to ensure effective Project
management.

Provision of support for the development of policy actions related to
territorial governance policy stakeholders (i.e. CEDETER, CODETER)
and instruments (i.e. Territorial Development Plans).

¢ P¢

ao?
Section I.

A.

1.

SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Implementation Arrangements

Institutional Arrangements

(a)

(b)

(il)

(iii)

to facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall transfer a
portion of the proceeds of the Loan to CAR under an agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and CAR, under terms and conditions
approved by the Bank (“CAR Subsidiary Agreement”), which shall
include, inter alia:

the roles and responsibilities of CAR with regard to the
implementation of the Project, including compliance with the
pertinent provisions of this Agreement;

the obligation of CAR to carry out the Project in accordance with
the Safeguard Documents; and

the obligation of CAR to comply with the requirements,
procedures, criteria and standards set forth in the General
Conditions, the Procurement Guidelines, the Consultant
Guidelines, the Anti-Corruption Guidelines and the Operational
Manual.

exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the CAR Subsidiary
Agreement, in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower
and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend,
abrogate, waive, terminate, or fail to enforce the CAR Subsidiary
Agreement, or any of its provisions.

No later than 60 days after the Effective Date, the Borrower shall establish, and
thereafter maintain during the implementation of the Project, a Project steering
committee chaired by CAR, and composed by representatives from SEAGRI,
SEDUR, SEDIR, SEMA, and SETRE, as defined in the Operational Manual,
responsible for providing general oversight and guidance on the strategic and
multisectoral aspects of the Project (the “Steering Committee”).

The Borrower shall:

(a)

operate and maintain, until the completion of the Project: (i) the PMU,
responsible for the management, coordination, supervision, monitoring

-9-
and evaluation of the Project; and (ii) not later than 30 days after the
Effective Date, establish, and thereafter operate and maintain until the
completion of the Project, at least eighteen (18) territorial offices,
responsible for the day to day local coordination and implementation of
Project activities in remote municipalities, including the responsibility to
ensure integration between institutions and stakeholders.

(b) cause the PMU and the units mentioned in (a) above to maintain, until
completion of the Project, a structure, responsibilities, and key staff in
adequate numbers with functions, experience, responsibilities and
qualifications acceptable to the Bank, as described in the Operational
Manual.

The Borrower shall (a) prepare and furnish to the Bank annual operating plans,
satisfactory to the Bank, detailing the Project activities to be carried out during
the year following the date of presentation of each such plan, together with the
respective sources of funding, by December 31 of each year during Project
implementation; (b) furnish to the Bank the approved annual operating plans
(including the respective sources of funding) referred to in paragraph (a) of this
Section for each year in question, not later than 30 days after the publication in
the Borrower’s Diario Oficial of the Borrower's annual budget approved by its
Legislative Assembly (Assembléia Legislativa); and (c) thereafter, implement
each of said plans in a manner acceptable to the Bank.

The Borrower shall, and shall cause CAR, the respective PO and the respective
Community Association, to carry out the Project in accordance with a manual
(the Operational Manual), satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include the rules,
methods, guidelines, standard documents and procedures for the carrying out of
the Project, including the following: (a) the detailed description of Project
implementation activities and the detailed institutional arrangements of the
Project and the role of each of the agencies participating in the Project; (b)
criteria and methods for the selection of POs and Community Associations; (c)
detailed social, economic, financial, technical and environmental criteria for the
evaluation and ranking for selecting Subprojects, including a negative list of
environmentally sensitive investments ineligible for financing under a
Subproject; (d) guidelines for the adoption of an integrated pest management
approach in all applicable activities to be developed under the Project; (e)
guidelines to follow in case of unexpected findings of objects with possible
cultural or archeological value; (f) a model form of a Subproject Agreement; (g)
the Project administrative, accounting, auditing, reporting, financial, procurement
and disbursement procedures; (h) the monitoring indicators for the Project; and
(i) the ESMF, IPPF and the RPF. In the event that any provision of the
Operational Manual shall conflict with this Agreement, the terms of this
Agreement shall prevail.

-10-

PAY

40
“—
~

a

40>

The Borrower shall cause CAR to:

(a)

(b)

not later than 60 days after the Effective Date and for purposes of
assisting CAR in the technical aspects of Project implementation,
specifically in the areas of technology, knowledge transfer and
innovation for agriculture, health, nutrition, food safety, agribusiness and
rural development, enter into an agreement (the Cooperation Agreement)
with a Cooperating Entity, under terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank, setting forth their respective roles and responsibilities regarding
the implementation of the Project

exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the Cooperation
Agreement, in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower,
CAR and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except
as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend,
abrogate, waive, terminate or fail to enforce the Cooperation Agreement,
or any of its provisions.

Anti-Corruption

The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.

Subprojects

For the purposes of carrying out Parts 1(a)(i), 1(a)(ii) and 2(a) of the Project, the
Borrower shall cause CAR to:

(a)

(b)

after having selected a Subproject in accordance with the guidelines and
procedures set forth in the Operational Manual, enter into an agreement
with the relevant PO or Community Association, as the case may be,
(“Subproject Agreement”), under terms and conditions approved by the
Bank and included in the Operational Manual, for the provision of
Matching Grants for the implementation of said Subproject.

exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under each Subproject
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower,
CAR, and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except
as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause CAR not to
assign, amend, abrogate, waive, terminate or fail to enforce any
Subproject Agreement or any provision thereof.

-ll-
Safeguards
Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF)

The Borrower shall cause CAR to: (a) implement the Project in accordance with
the ESMF (including provisions for natural habitats, forests, and pest
management); (b) adopt the procedures detailed in said ESMF for environmental
screening, evaluation, implementation and monitoring of Subprojects, including
the procedures for the preparation of environmental management plans, if
applicable; and (c) implement and/or cause to be implemented, the pertinent
environmental management plan, in accordance with its terms and in a manner
acceptable to the Bank.

Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework (IPPF)

The Borrower shall cause CAR to: (a) implement the Project in accordance with
the IPPF; (b) adopt the procedures detailed in said IPPF for screening, evaluation,
implementation, and monitoring of Subprojects; and (c) implement and/or cause
to be implemented, the pertinent Indigenous Peoples development plan, in
accordance with its terms and in a manner acceptable to the Bank.

Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF)

The Borrower shall cause CAR to: (a) implement the Project in accordance with
the Resettlement Policy Framework; (b) adopt the procedures detailed in said
Resettlement Policy Framework for screening, evaluation, implementation and
monitoring of Subprojects; and (c) implement and/or cause to be implemented,
the pertinent resettlement action plan or abbreviated plan (for cases where 200 or
less persons are affected, or where they are not physically relocated or would lose
10% or less of productive assets), as the case may be, all in accordance with its
terms and in a manner acceptable to the Bank.

For purposes of Part 3(e) of the Project, the Borrower shall cause CAR to ensure
that the terms of reference of any consultancy contract entered under such sub-
component shall be satisfactory to the Bank, following its review thereof, and to
that end, such terms of reference shall duly incorporate the requirement of the
Bank’s Safeguards Policies then in force, as applied to the advice conveyed
through such technical assistance.

Section II. Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

A.

Project Reports

The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General

-|2-

., J oD
PS
407

(

Conditions and on the basis of the performance indicators acceptable to the Bank
and set forth in the Operational Manual. Each Project Report shall cover the
period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than
45 days after the end of the period covered by such report.

Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits

The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.

Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each
calendar semester, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the
semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.

The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the
Bank not later than six months after the end of such period.

Section HI. Procurement

General

Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shail be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.

Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.

Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, Il], IV and V of the Consultant
Guidelines, as the case may be.

Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services

-13-
1. International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding procedures.

2. Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than
International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, works and
non-consulting services. The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances
under which such methods may be used:

 
 

(a) National Competitive Bidding (including the method known as “pregdo
eletrénico” (except for works), as provided in the Guarantor’s Law No. 10520, of
July 17, 2002, under any e-procurement system acceptable to the Bank), subject to
the following additional procedure, namely, that the bidding documents shall be

acceptable to the Bank

(b) Shopping ( including the method known as “pregdo eletrénico”, as provided in the
Guarantor’s Law No. 10520, of July 17, 2002, under any e-procurement system
acceptable to the Bank)

(c) Direct Contracting

(d) Community Participation in Procurement procedures, as set forth in the Operational
Manual
C.

Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services

 
   
 
     

   
      
   

 
 

  

1. Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.

2. Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services. The Procurement Plan
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used:

Procurement Method

(a) Selection based on Consultant’s Qualifications
b) Selection under a Fixed Budget
c) Least Cost Selection

(d) Procedures set forth in Paragraphs 5.1 to 5.5 of the Consultants Guidelines for the
Selection of Individual Consultants

(e) Single Source Selection
Fixed- Cost Selection

(g) Single Source Procedures for the selection of Individual Consultants set forth in
paragraph 5.6 of the Consultant Guidelines

 
  

 
    
      
   
   
     

  
 

_14-
D. Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank’s Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.

Section IV. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. General

l. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.

2. The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.

   
 
   
  
  
  

Amount of the Loan
Allocated

expressed in USD

  
 
   

  
 
  

Percentage of
Expenditures
to be financed

 
 
    
  

  
  

(1) Goods, works, non-
consulting services, and
consultants’ services

required for Subprojects

Up to 100% of the
amount disbursed under
a Matching Grant.

  
 
 
 

119,625,000

   
 
  
 

   

  

(2) Goods, works, consultants’ 30,000,000
services, non-consulting
services, Operating Costs and
Training under Parts
1(b);1(c); 2(b) and 3 of the
Project

 
 
     
 
    
     

    

   

(3) Front-end Fee 375,000 Amount payable
pursuant to Section 2.03
of this Agreement in
accordance with Section
2.07 (b) of the General

Conditions

    
    
 
 
    

-15-
(a)

(b)

Amount of the Loan Percentage of
Allocated Expenditures

Category (expressed in USD) to be financed

TOTAL AMOUNT 150,000,000

For the purposes of this Section:

 

the term “Operating Costs” means the reasonable incremental operational costs
(which would not have been incurred absent the Project), related to Project
technical and administrative management monitoring and supervision required
under the Project, including inter alia, administrative and operational support
staff, office equipment, supplies, travel costs (including accommodations,
transportation costs and per diem), printing services, communication costs,
utilities, maintenance of office equipment and facilities, vehicle operation and
maintenance costs, and logistics services; and

the term “Training” means expenditures (other than those for consultants’
services) incurred by CAR in connection with the carrying out of
training, seminars, and workshops, including the reasonable travel costs (e.g.
accommodations, transportation costs and per diem) of trainees and trainers
(if applicable), catering, rental of training facilities and equipment,
logistics and printing services, as well as training materials and equipment under
the Project.

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $30,000,000 equivalent
may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after March 21,
2014, for Eligible Expenditures under Categories (1) and (2), but in no case more
than one year prior to the date of this Agreement.

The Closing Date is March 31, 2021. The Bank will only grant an extension of

the Closing Date after the Guarantor’s Ministry of Finance has informed the
Bank that it agrees with such extension.

-16-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date (“Installment Share”). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.

Principal Payment Date Installment Share
Expressed as a Percentage

15 Apr 2019
15 Oct 2019
15 Apr 2020
15 Oct 2020
15 Apr 2021
15 Oct 2021
15 Apr 2022
15 Oct 2022
15 Apr 2023
15 Oct 2023
15 Apr 2024
15 Oct 2024
15 Apr 2025
15 Oct 2025
15 Apr 2026
15 Oct 2026
15 Apr 2027
15 Oct 2027
15 Apr 2028
15 Oct 2028
15 Apr 2029
15 Oct 2029
15 Apr 2030
15 Oct 2030
15 Apr 2031
15 Oct 2031
15 Apr 2032
15 Oct 2032

 
Principal Payment Date

15 Apr 2033
15 Oct 2033
15 Apr 2034
15 Oct 2034
15 Apr 2035
15 Oct 2035
15 Apr 2036
15 Oct 2036
15 Apr 2037
15 Oct 2037
15 Apr 2038
15 Oct 2038
15 Apr 2039
15 Oct 2039
15 Apr 2040
15 Oct 2040
15 Apr 2041
15 Oct 2041
15 Apr 2042
15 Oct 2042
15 Apr 2043
15 Oct 2043
15 Apr 2044

Installment Share
Expressed as a Percentage

 

If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:

(a)

(b)

To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1
of this Schedule.

Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”)
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any

- 18 -
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.

(a) Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.

(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (11) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.

If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.

-19-
APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

l.

“Agricultural Risk Analysis” means an evaluation of risks for investments in
agriculture.

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants’, dated October 15, 2006, and revised in January 2011.

“Bank’s Safeguards Policies” means the Bank’s operational policies and
procedures, set forth in the Bank’s operational manual and identified as OP/BP
4.01, 4.04, 4.09, 4.10. 4.11, 4.12, 4.36, 4.37, 7.50 and 7.60, as said manual is
published under www. WorldBank.org/opmanual.

“Business Plan” means a long-term commercial plan, proposed by a PO and
agreed by CAR, aimed at meeting market demands, through arrangements to
carry out jointly developed investments, including Subprojects, and mutual
commercial transactions.

“CAR” means Companhia de Desenvolvimento e Acdo Regional, the Borrower’s
company of development and regional integration, or any successor thereto.

“CAR Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement set forth in Section I.A.1(a)
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.

“CENTRAL” means each of the Central de Associagdes Comunitarias para
Manutencdo de Sistemas de Abastecimento de Agua, private non-profit
organizations with the objective of guaranteeing, through an associations-based
management model, sustainability of the water supply and sanitation systems for
the population in rural areas in which the conventional systems maintained by the
Borrower’s municipalities have proven to be unfeasible due to high operation and
maintenance costs.

“Community Association or CA” means a civil association formed by members

of a community (associagao civil) duly established in the Borrower's territory in
accordance with the Guarantor's laws, and which meets the criteria set forth in
the Operational Manual (as hereinafter defined) for participating in Part 1(b)(i1)
of the Project.

20 -
10.

11.

12.

13.

15.

16.

“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers” dated January 2011.

“Cooperation Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section 1A.6 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Cooperating Entity” means any entity, acceptable to the Bank, with international
expertise on design, planning, implementation and evaluation of sustainable rural
development projects and with demonstrated experience on technology and
innovation for agriculture, knowledge transfer, agribusiness, nutrition, health and
food safety.

“Environmental and Social Management Framework or ESMF” means the
Borrower’s framework dated March 17, 2014 acceptable to the Bank, as
published and available to the public on the website www.car.ba.gov.br, which
contains the environmental protection measures in respect of the Project,
including: (i) measures for chance findings of cultural property; (ii) protection of
natural habitats and pest management; (iii) guidelines for the identification of
existing environmental conditions and potential direct and indirect environmental
impacts resulting from the carrying out of the Project (including Subprojects);
(iv) guidelines for the carrying out of environmental assessments and the
preparation of environmental management plans, when applicable; (v) the
recommendation of mitigation measures for each negative impact identified; and
(vi) measures for enhancing each identified positive impact, as such framework
may be amended from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.

“Indigenous Peoples” means the indigenous peoples recognized as such by the
Borrower’s Fundagdo Nacional do Indio, the National Indian Foundation
established and operating pursuant to the provisions of the Borrower’s Decree
No. 4645, dated March 25, 2003.

“Indigenous Peoples’ Planning Framework or IPPF” means the Borrower’s
framework dated March 17, 2014, acceptable to the Bank, published and
available to the public on the website www.car.ba.gov.br, satisfactory to the
Bank, detailing measures to mitigate any adverse impact on Indigenous Peoples
as a result of any activity carried out under the Project (including Subprojects)
and to ensure that they benefit from the Project, including procedures for the
preparation and implementation of the pertinent Indigenous Peoples development
plans, as such framework may be amended from time to time with the prior
agreement of the Bank.

-2] -
17.

19,

20.

21.

22.

23.

24.

25.

“Investment Plans” means a long-term investment plan, proposed by a CA and
agreed by CAR, aimed at the carrying out of jointly developed investments,
including Subprojects, and mutual commercial transactions.

‘“Market-Oriented Subprojects” means any eligible productive and market-
oriented investment, including technology and irrigation under Part 1(b)(i) of the
Project, which has been identified and prioritized in a Business Plan as approved
by CAR in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Operational Manual.

“Matching Grant” means a grant made out of the proceeds of the Loan to a
selected PO (for Market-Oriented Subprojects) or a selected Community
Association (for Socio-Environmental Subprojects and/or WSS Subprojects), for
the partial financing of an eligible Subproject, subject to the specific terms and
conditions set forth in the Operational Manual and in the relevant Subproject
Agreement.

“Operational Manual” means the Borrower’s manual dated May 30, 2014 for the
operation of the Project referred to in Section I.A.5 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.

“PMU” means Unidade de Gerenciamento do Projeto, the Borrower’s technical
unit within CAR, created through Portaria No. 040/95 dated May 5, 1995, and
referred to in Section I.A.3(a)(i) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers” dated January 2011.

“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project,
dated June 3, 2014, and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.

“Producers Organizations or PO” means a producer-based organization vested
with legal personality and/or a group of rural citizens organized into a legally
established private association, all of which, upon meeting the criteria set forth in
the Operational Manual, is eligible to receive a Matching Grant on behalf of its
members, for the carrying out of a Market-Oriented Subproject.

“Resettlement Policy Framework or RPF” means the Borrower’s framework
dated March 17, 2014, published and available to the public on the website
www.car.ba.gov.br and outlining general implementation procedures, mitigation
measures and monitoring procedures for involuntary resettlement under the

-22-
26.

27.

28.

29.

30.

31.

32.

33.

34.

35.

36.

37.

Project, including the procedures for the preparation and implementation of
resettlement action plans, as said framework may be amended from time to time
with the Bank’s prior approval, as such framework may be amended from time to
time with the prior agreement of the Bank.

“SAAE” means Sistema Autédnomo de Agua e Esgoto, municipal entities
responsible for the collection, treatment and supply of WSS in the Borrower’s
territory and for providing quality services to its customers, with special
emphasis on environmental preservation.

“Safeguard Documents” means the ESMF, the IPPF and/or the RPF.

“SEAGRI” means Secretaria de Agricultura, Pecuaria, Irrigagdo, Reforma
Agraria, Pesca e Aquicultura, the Borrower’s Secretariat of Agriculture.

“SEDIR” means Secretaria de Desenvolvimento e Integragdo Regional, the
Borrower’s Secretariat of Development and Regional Integration.

“SEDUR” means Secretaria de Desenvolvimento Urbano, the Borrower’s
Secretariat of Urban Development.

“SEMA” means Secretaria do Meio Ambiente, the Borrower’s Secretariat of
Environment. |

“SETRE” means Secretaria do Trabalho, Emprego, Renda e Esporte, the
Borrower’s Secretariat of Labor, Employment, Income and Sports.

“Socio-Environmental Subproject” means any investment aimed at protecting
water bodies referred to in Part 1(a)(ii) of the Project, included in an Investment
Plan, approved by the Borrower in accordance with relevant provisions of the
Operational Manual.

“Steering Committee” means the committee referred to in Section I.A.2 of this
Agreement.

“Subproject” means any Market-Oriented Subproject, Socio-Environmental
Subproject and/or WSS Subproject.

“Subproject Agreement” means each agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and an eligible PO (for Market-Oriented Subprojects) or a Community
Association (for Socio-Environmental Subprojects and/or WSS Subproject), as
the case may be, as specified in Section C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“WSS” means water and sanitation services.

23 -
38. “WSS Subprojects” means any eligible small-scale investment identified by the
pertinent CA, aimed at improving sanitary conditions and water supply access
where pre-established adequate management systems are present and sufficient
hydrological resources have been identified at the household level, approved by
the Borrower in accordance with relevant provisions of the Operational Manual
and referred to in Part 2(a) of the Project.

Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions

The definition of the term “Loan Payment” is modified to read as follows in
order to include “surcharge”:

““‘T_oan Payment” means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the
Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions,
including (but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan
Balance, interest, the Front-end Fee, interest at the Default Interest Rate
(if any), any surcharge, any prepayment premium, any transaction fee for
a Conversion or early termination of a Conversion, the Variable Spread
Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable upon the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding Amount
payable by the Borrower.”

24.
