Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

 

LOAN NUMBER 8369-CN

:

Loan Agreement

(Yunnan Honghe Prefecture Diannan Center Urban Transport Project)
between Pays
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT |

Dated Perl 23 , 2014

 

 
, LOAN NUMBER 8369-CN
LOAN AGREEMENT _

Agreement dated els 2-4 _, 2014, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF

CHINA (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:

1.01.

1.02.

2.01.

2.03.

2.04.

2.05,

2.06.

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

‘The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an

integral part of this Agreement.

Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.

ARTICLE II — LOAN

The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred and fifty million Dollars
($150,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency

Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement

(“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement
(“Project”).

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.

The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to
the Reference Rate, for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable
by ‘the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided 1 in Section 3.02

(e) of the General Conditions.

The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07.

3.01.

3.02.

4.01.

(a)

(b)

(c)

The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the
interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or
vice versa; or (B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a
Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference
Rate. . |

Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is

accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in the
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.

Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium
payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE Il — PROJECT

The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to carry out the Project in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and the Project
Agreement. .

Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS - TERMINATION

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement.
5.03.

ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

' The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Finance. -

The Borrower’s Address is:

Ministry of Finance

Sanlihe °

Beijing 100820 |
People’s Republic of China

Facsimile: 86-10-6855-1125

The Bank’s Address is:

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N. W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America

Cable address: Telex: Facsimile:

INTBAFRAD 248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391

Washington, D.C. 64145(MCI)
AGREED at Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first above written.

PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

Authorized Representative
Name: Vo ve Attn:

Title: _Lepaty Oreste“ pect — Creneo-

A-7. ares Prnae 22
INTERNATIONAL BANK FO |
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

» Ah bor’
Authorized Representative

Name: _ Klan olla |
Title: _ C-Peere DO \neefanr, Cle

w4.
SCHEDULE 1

Project Description

The objective of the Project is to improve the safety, accessibility and efficiency of trips

taken by residents in the core urban areas of Mengzi City and Jianshui County.

The Project consists of the following parts: -

Part A: Mengzi City

1,

Part B:

Optimization of the functional hierarchy and overall efficiency of Mengzi City’s road
network through, inter alia, the construction of selected. missing links in the road network
and rehabilitation of selected road corridors, including associated facilities.

Implementation of integrated corridor management improvements on selected corridors
in Mengzi City, incorporating, inter alia, civil works, intelligent transport system and
road safety design, education and traffic regulation, parking management, and e-bike
management. |

Improvement of public transport services through, inter alia: (a) construction of bus
depots and terminals; (b) construction of bus stops and bus bays; and (c) development
and implementation of a bus-location and monitoring system, and a real-time passenger
information system. — >

“yy nl

' Development and implementation of safe school transportation demonstration programs,
including through: (a) development of a model school transport zone; (b) piloting of

home-to-school transportation demonstrations; and (c) carrying out of public campaigns,
trainings, and provision of technical assistance.

Enhancement of the institutional capacity of Mengzi Municipality, including through: (a)
carrying out of urban transport related studies; (b) provision of project management and
technical support; (c) carrying out of training and knowledge-sharing activities with a
focus on urban transport and road safety initiatives; and (d) carrying out of public
communication and education campaigns.

Jianshui County :

Implementation of integrated corridor management improvements on selected corridors
in Jianshui County, incorporating, inter alia, civil works, intelligent transport system and
road safety design, education and traffic regulation, parking management, and e-bike
management.

Improvement of public transport services through, inter alia: (a) construction of bus
interchanges and depots; and (b) development of a bus-location and monitoring system,.
and a real-time passenger information system.

~5-

Fee ays epg som een erie aT cle A) CHM CAE TN Yt DC rene Sa a NE
Construction of the South Bypass, including associated facilities, aimed at alleviating
through traffic in Jianshui County’s downtown area.

Enhancement of the institutional capacity of Jianshui County, including through: {a)
carrying out of urban transport related studies; (b) provision of project management and
technical support; (c) carrying out of training and knowledge-sharing activities with a
focus on urban transport and road safety initiatives; and (d) carrying out of public
communication and education campaigns.

6
SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Section I. Implementation Arrangements

A.

1.

Financing Arrangements

For the purposes of carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make available the
proceeds of the Loan to the Project Implementing Entity, under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, including the following principal terms:

(a) The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars or any other Currency as
the Loan may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion
(such principal amount determined on the date, or respective dates, of withdrawal
from the Loan Account) of the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn.

(b) The principal amount so made available {including an amount equal to the fee
paid pursuant to Section 2.03 of this Agreement and any premium for Interest
Rate Caps or Interest Rate Collars paid pursuant to Section 2.07(c) of this
Agreement and Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions) shall be recovered
over a- period of twenty five (25) years, inclusive of a grace period of eight (8)
years.

(c) Interest shall be charged on such principal amount, withdrawn and outstanding

' from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest applicable from time to
time to the Loan pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.04 of this Agreement.

The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to: (a) manage, operate,
monitor, transfer and reconcile the proceeds of the Loan made available to it pursuant to
paragraph 1] above in accordance with arrangements and procedures satisfactory to the
Bank; (b) take‘all required actions, including provision of timely consents and approvals
as may be necessary, to facilitate the utilization of said Loan proceeds and the
implementation of the Project and, to enable the Project Implementing Entity to comply
with its undertakings under the Project Agreement; and (c) maintain all relevant records
and documents related to the Loan and the Project and provide promptly such documents

‘and records, including all other information, as may be requested by the Borrower or the

Bank from time to time. ‘
Anti-Corruption

The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the

‘provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
Safeguards

The Borrower shall, and shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to, také all measures
necessary to comply with the provisions of Section I.-C of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement. . .

Section II. Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation

Project Reports

The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Prcject
Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and

on the basis of the indicators set forth in the Results Framework. Each Project Report .

shall cover the period of one (1) calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not
later than sixty days (60) days after the end of the period covered by such report.

Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits

The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management systern in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions.

Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall cause
the Projéct Implementing Entity to prepare and furnish to the Bank, as part of the Project
Report, not later than sixty (60) days after the end of each calendar semester, interim
unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the semester, | in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank.

The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the Financial
Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six
months after the end of such period. The Borrower shall make, or cause the Project

Implementing Entity to make, the audited Financial Statements publicly available in a ~

timely fashion and in a manner acceptable to the Bank.

Section II. Procurement

’ General .

Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. All goods, works and non-consulting
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall

be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the

Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.

Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to be

financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and

with the provisions of this Section.
-8-

&-
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to
the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the Procurement Guidelines,
or Sections II, I, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.

Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services

International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2
below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.

- Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. The
following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used for
procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for those contracts
' specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the
additional provisions set’ forth in the box below; (b) Direct Contracting; and (c)
Shopping.

  
 
      
   
   
   
       
       
     
   
   
     
     
   
   
   
   
   
   
     

  

The procedures applicable to the procurement of goods, works, and non-consulting

(“NCB”) shall be the open tendering procedures set forth in the Borrower’s Law on
| Tendering and Bidding promulgated by its Order No. 21 dated August 30, 1999;
provided, however, that such procedures shall be subject to.fhe provisions of Section J,
Paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of Section III, and Appendix 1 of the Procurement Guidelines,
and the additional provisions in the following. In the event of a conflict between the
Borrower’s procedures and these NCB Procedure Modifications, the latter shall
govern.

(i) Eligibility to participate in a procurement process and to be awarded a Bank-
financed contract shall be as defined under Section I of the Procurement
Guidelines; accordingly, no bidder or potential bidder shall be declared
ineligible for such contract for reasons other than those provided in Section I
of the Procurement Guidelines. No restriction based on nationality of bidders
and/or origin of goods shali apply, and foreign bidders shall be allowed to
participate in NCB without application of restrictive conditions.

(ii) All invitations to prequalify or bid shall be advertised in a national newspaper
of wide circulation in the Borrower’s country, or on a widely used website /
electronic portal with free national and international access acceptable to the
Bank except for goods or non-consulting services contracts that are estimated
to cost less than $300,000 equivalent each, or: works contracts that are
estimated to cost less than $2,000,000 each, which may be advertised in a
provincial daily newspaper. Such advertisement shall be made in sufficient
time for prospective bidders to obtain prequalification or bidding documents

and prepare and submit their responses. In any event, a minimum of thirty

30) days shall be given to bidders between the date of such advertisement (or

services under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding |

EV TITRE TN EEE” AC Liy SLA hy yt SORIA OT LHL LET TIN eS

2 Atego A MRED REANIM, GEMS nee

AIAN ER ADTRAN EER PAYA TDS IRR

aa Ap Ym ty SENATE Le RIK MEI ME aR UA TL gM MFA

SE NO I ea AEN Sete TRS RAT ts OE a Te Yin
(iii)
(iv)

(v)

o

(vii)

(viii)

(ix)

the date of availability of bidding documents, whichever is later) and the
deadline for the submission of bids, and the advertisement and bidding
documents shall specify the deadline for the submission of bids. In the case of
such advertisement on a website / electronic portal, the notice shall remain
readily accessible nationally and internationally until at least the deadline for
the submission of bids. Potential bidders shall be allowed to inspect and
purchase bidding documents at any time prior to the deadline for the
submission of bids.

Standard Bidding Documents acceptable to the Bank shall be used.

Qualification requirements of bidders and the method of evaluating the
qualification of each bidder shall be specified in detail in the bidding

documents.

Prequalification procedures and documents acceptable to the Bank shall be
used for large, complex and/or specialized works. Verification of the
information upon which a -bidder was prequalified, including current

commitments, shall be carried out at the time of contract award, along with the

bidder’s capability with respect to personnel and equipment. - All bidders that
meet the qualification criteria set out in the pre-qualification documents shall
be allowed to bid, and there shall be no limit on the number of pre-qualified

‘bidders. Where pre-qualification is not used, the qualification of the bidder

who is recommended for award of contract shall be assessed by pcst-
qualification, applying the qualification criteria stated in the bidding
documents.

Registration shall! not be used to assess bidders’ qualifications. A bidder shall
not be required to register as a condition for inspecting or purchasing bidding
documents, submitting its bid or receiving contract award. A _ bidder
determined to be the lowest evaluated responsive bidder, shall be given
reasonable opportunity of registering (if required) before contract signing
without any let or hindrance. Bidding shall not be restricted to any particular
class of contractors, and non-classified contractors shall also be eligible to bid.

No margins of preference of any sort shall be given to bidders, such as on the
basis of their location, place of incorporation, or affinity with the geographical
area in which the Project activities wil] take place.

All bidders who are awarded contracts for works and single-responsibility

contracts shall be required to provide performance security in an amount
sufficient to protect the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity / Entities,
as the case may be, in case of breach of contract by the contractor, and the
bidding documents shall specify the required form and amount of such security
and any other potential damages for such breach.

Bidders shall be allowed to submit bids by mail or in person.

-10-

 
  
     
 

 
 

(x) All bids shall be opened i in public; all bidders shall be offered an opportunity
to be present (either in person or through their representatives) at the time of
bid opening, but bidders shall not be required to be present at the bid opening.

    
   
    
      
      
 

All bid evaluation criteria shall be disclosed in the bidding documents and

requirements.

No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price exceeds any cost
estimate or falls outside any margin or bracket of prices or average bids
established by the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity / Entities, as
the case may be. Rejection of all bids or re-bidding shall not be allowed solely

_rebidding shall not take place without the Bank’s prior written agreement.

       
 
      
   
  
     
   
  

Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated responsive bidder, that
is, the bidder who meets the appropriate standards of capability and resources

bidding documents; and (B) to offer the lowest evaluated cost. The winning
bidder shall not. be required, as a condition of award, to undertake
responsibilities for work or to assume other obligations not stipulated in the
bidding documents or otherwise to modify the bid as originally submitted. No
negotiations shall be permitted except with the. Bank’s no-objection.

 
 

| (xiv) In accordance with the Procurement Guidelines, each bidding document and

contract shall include provisions stating the Bank’s policy to sanction firms or
individuals found to have engaged in fraud and corruption as set forth in the
Procurement Guidelines.

In accordance with the Procurement Guidelines, each bidding document and
contract shall include provisions stating the Bank’s policy with respect to
inspection and audit of accounts, records and other documents relating to the
submission of bids and contract performance.

 
     
   
  
   
     
    
  

  

' Government-owned enterprises in the Borrower’s country may be permitted to
bid or submit a proposal of goods, works, or non-consulting services if they
can establish that they: (A) are legally and financially autonomous; (B) operate
under commercial law; and (C) are not a dependent agency of the agency
conducting the procurement. .

(xvii) Matters such as subcontracting, joint venture relationships and assignment of
contract shall be handled in accordance with the bidding documents. —

      
   
      
    

(xviii) The results of bid evaluation and contract award shall be published in the
national or provincial press (as provided under paragraph (ii) above) or official
gazette or a free and open-access website and shall identify: (A) the name of
each bidder who submitted a bid; (B) bid prices as read out at bid opening; (C)
the name of the bidder, and the evaluated price, of each bid that was evaluated;

-|l-

   

quantified in monetary terms or expressed in the form of pass/fail

because the number of bids is less than three (3), and rejection of all bids or |

and whose bid has been determined: (A) to be substantially responsive-to the |

Ragen et

MER eee oe ene TENS FOR SIME TRAE RSE TP SPPT EL QE

Om YIP aS ANY a Lang Me eA A

LAM yO EMAL RU. PMC NTL age SH RN DENA TROIS MAS EMIS TNE FINES RS Hla

Paani ht PINE NY

Tousen HEA

SAR Ree ya eae ANE REE eee MY geht pn alt age RY SA CR HRY OBR I BD SP PMN, BE TE ty ot
D.

(D) the names of bidders whose bids were either rejected as non-responsive or
not meeting qualification criteria, or not evaluated, with the reasons therefor;
and (E) the name of the winning’ bidder and the final total contract price, as
well as the duration and summary scope of the contract. Such publication shall
be within two (2) weeks of receiving the Bank’s no-objection to the award
recommendation for contracts subject to the Bank’s prior review, and within
two (2) weeks of the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity’s award
decision for contracts subject to the Bank’s post review. The bidding
documents shall disclose the newspaper in which and / or the electronic means
by which the information on contract award will be published.

      
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
     

(xix) The. Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity / Entities, as the case may

be, shall have in place an effective and independent protest mechanism for
bidders to protest. The bidding documents shall provide the professional title
and address of the official to whom such protests should be sent.

 
   
     

 

Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.

Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality-
and Cost-based Selection.

Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection,
which may be used for consultants’ services. The Procurement Plan shall specify the
circumstances under which such methods may be used:

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

    
 
 
  

   

The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s
Prior Review. All other contracts shall be-subject to Post Review by the Bank.

~12-
 

Section IV. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. General

l. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as
the Bank shall specify by notice tothe Borrower (including the “World Bank
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by
the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to
finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.

2. - The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible
Expenditures in each Category.

Amount of the Loan Percentage of Expenditures
. Allocated to be financed
expressed in USD (inclusive of Taxes
Project |

(2) Goods, consultants’ | 21,916,000
services, non-consulting
services, Training and
Workshops and Incremental

         
           
         
 

| Operating Costs under Part A
of the Project .
Project °
(4) Goods, consultants’ 9,720,000 -

      

services, non-consulting
services, Training and

‘| Workshops and Incremental
Operating Costs under Part B
of the Project
(5) Interest on the Loan
accrued on or before the last
Payment Date immediately
preceding the Closing Date

 
   
   
      
    

   
  
    
 
 

    
 
   
  

  
    

2,760,000 Amount payable pursuant to
Section 2.04 of this

Agreement in accordance with
Section 2.07 (c) of the General
Conditions
Amount payable pursuant to
Section 2.03 of this

Agreement in accordance with
Section 2.07 (b) of the General

Conditions

4

     
 

  
   
     

      

(6) Front-end Fee - 375,000

     
    
 

-13-

LOSI T PONTE 0 De oP NINN Sap,

PEM NRRL N A AERA

LETS SNAG IPAS HT REM EMEC ET ITAeS Ywme

YEE AATINE CRNA ARIS UPR Sa

“na NT A ap ech sy icaeemat geleET MRR SINE MG ME AN Bo CRE MELE DY ort TATE tS S
‘| (7) Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar premium

TOTAL AMOUNT | 150,000,000

B. Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

Amount due pursuant to
Section 2.07(c) of this
Agreement

 
   

    

    

 

l. Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made for
payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed $15,000,000 equivalent may be made for payments made
prior to this date but on or after January 1, 2014, for Eligible Expenditures.

~2. . The Closing Date is June 30, 2020.

-14-
SCHEDULE 3

Amortization Schedule

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment
Date (“Installment Share”). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) _
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable.amount to be
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule,
to which a Currency Conversion applies.

Principal Payment Date

15 November 2022

.

Installment Share
(expressed as a percentage)

    
 

2.28%

 
  
  

______—*'1S November 2022
| 15 May 2023

2.3
6

15 May 2027
15 May 2028 2.69%

‘6
15 May 2034

15 November 2027 »
15 November 2029 - 2.81%:

| 3.26%

: . -15-

    

      
| 15 November 2038 3.61%
15 May 2039 . 3.54%
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal

Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:

(a) To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.

(b) Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original
Installment Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies. :

(a) Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and
outstanding on the second: Principal Payment Date following the date of
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.

(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of

such billing system. :

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs | and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved
Currency, the amount so converted jn the Approved Currency that is repayable on any
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate.component of the Screen Rate.

If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.

— 16-
APPENDIX.

Section IL. Definitions

l.

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”,
dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011... |

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section [V of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement. |

“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers”
dated January 2011.

“Displaced Persons” means persons who, on account of the execution of the Project, have ~
experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts caused by: (a) the
involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of shelter; (11) loss of assets
or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources or means of livelihood, whether or not
such persons must move to another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to
legally designated parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the
livelihood of such persons; and a “Displaced Person” means any of such Displaced
Persons. .

“Environmental | Management Plans” or the acronym “EMPs” means: (a) the
Environmental. Management Plan prepared for the ‘Project (Mengzi City), dated
September 29, 2013; and (b) the Environmental Management Plan prepared for the
Project (Jianshui County), dated August 28, 2013, in each case prepared and adopted by
the Project Implementing Entity, through HAP, and each of Mengzi Municipality and
Jianshui County, and acceptable to the Bank, which plans set out the environmental
protection measures, including measures for the protection of physical cultural resources,
in respect of the Project, as well as administrative and monitoring arrangement to ensure
the implementation of said plans, as said plans may be revised from time to time with the
prior written agreement of the Bank, and such term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental thereto. .

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for . Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions fpr Loans”, dated March 12, 2012.

“HAP” means the autonomous prefecture of Honghe Hani and Yi in Yunnan Province, or
any successor thereto. ,

“Incremental Operating Costs” means the reasonable expenditures directly related to the

Project incurred by HAP, Mengzi Municipality and/or Jianshui County, on account of
Project implementation, management, coordination, and monitoring and evaluation, in

respect of travel costs, office rent and supplies, organization of meetings, logistics,

communications and translation services, but excluding salaries and salary supplements

of the Borrower’s civil servants.

-|7-
13.

14,

15.

16.

17.

18.

19.

“Jianshui County” means the county of such name, organized under HAP in Yunnan
Province, as well as the territorial area over which it has jurisdiction, or any successor .
thereto.

“Mengzi City” means the territorial city of Mengzi in Yunnan Province.

“Mengzi Municipality” means the municipality of such name, organized under HAP in
Yunnan Province, or any successor thereto.

“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and
Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers” dated January 2011. .

“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, dated March

-28, 2014 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph

1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in
accordance with the provisions‘of said paragraphs.

“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and the Project
Implementing Entity of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to
time; and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project
Agreement.

“Project Execution Offices” means the offices established by each of Mengzi
Municipality on May 31, 2011, and Jianshui County on November 11, 2011, to assist
HAP, Mengzi Municipality and Jianshui County, in the carrying out their Respective Part
of the Project, and to be responsible for procurement management, financial
management, compliance with safeguards, and supervision of all Project activities, and
referred to in Section 1.A.1(c) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.

“Project Implementing Entity” means the Borrower’s province of Yunnan, or any
successor thereto. . : .

“Project Managernent Office” means the Project management office internally’
established by HAP on May 31, 2011, to provide overall Project implementation
management and coordination, and referred to in Section J.A.1(b) of the Schedule to the
Project Agreement. ‘ os

“Project Steering Committee” means the Project steering committee established by the
HAP on November 10, 2010, to oversee the preparation and implementation of the
Project, provide overall leadership, policy guidance, and coordination, and referred to in

’ Section LA.1(a) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.

" “Resettlement Action Plans” and “RAPs” means: (a) the Resettlement Action Plan for the

Project (Jianshui County), dated September 13, 2013: and (b) the Resettlement Action °
Plan for the Project (Mengzi City), dated January 17, 2014, in each case prepared and
adopted by the Project Implementing Entity, through HAP, and each of Mengzi

-18-

 
20.

’ 21.

22.

23.

24.

25.

Municipality and Jianshui County, for purposes of carrying out the Project, which plans
shall set out, inter alia: (i) the principles and procedures governing the acquisition of land
required for the Project and related facilities; (ii) actions and measures for the payment of
compensation to Displaced Persons and for their resettlement and rehabilitation; (iii) the
criteria and procedures for developing and implementing actions and measures,

satisfactory to the Bank, for mitigating the adverse social impacts resulting from the
implementation of activities in locations that are not directly identified in the RAP; and

~ (iv) reporting and monitoring arrangements to ensure compliance with said plans, as the

same may be revised from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank; and
such term includes all attachments and annexes supplemental to said plans.

“Respective Part of the Project” means, with respect to: (a) HAP: Parts A.5 and B.4 of
the Project; (b) Mengzi Municipality: Part A of the Project; and (c) Jianshui County: Part
B of the Project.

“Results Framework” means the Borrower’s framework, dated March 28, 2014, and
agreed with the Bank, setting forth the indicators and targets for purposes of monitoring
and evaluation of the progress of the Project, as the same may be modified from time to
time with the prior written agreement of the Bank, and such term includes any annexes,
appendices, or schedules to such framework.

“Safeguards Instruments” means, collectively, the EMPs and the RAPs, and such term
includes any annexes or schedules to such instruments. |

“South Bypass” means the major bypass road aimed at alleviating through traffic in
Jianshui County’s downtown area, designed to run from south to east of such area.

“Training and Workshops” means the costs of training activities under the Project, based

‘on annual work plans and budgets approved by the Bank, and attributable to seminars,

workshops, and domestic and overseas study trips, along with travel and subsistence
allowances. for training participants, services of' trainers, rental of training facilities,

preparation and reproduction of training materials, and other activities directly related to.
course preparation and implementation. .

“Yunnan Province” means the Borrower’s province of Yunnan, or any successor thereto.

-19-
