Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

OFFICIAL |

UMEN

 

LOAN NUMBER 8386-MX

Loan Agreement

(Oaxaca Water and Sanitation Sector Modernization Operation)

between

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

and

BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.N.C,
INSTITUCION DE BANCA DE DESAROLLO

Dated June [3 , 2014
LOAN AGREEMENT

Agreement dated ,/iap /j _, 2014, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) and BANCO
NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.N.C, INSTITUCION DE
BANCA DE DESAROLLO (“Borrower”). The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree as
follows:

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01. The General Conditions for the Program and the General Conditions for the
Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an integral part
of this Agreement.

1.02. Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.

ARTICLE II — LOAN

2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement: (a) the amount of forty five million Dollars
($45,000,000) (the Program Loan); and (b) the amount of ten million Dollars
($10,000,000) (the Project Loan), as any of such amounts may be converted
from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the
provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement, to assist in financing the Operation.

2.02. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Program Loan and the Project
Loan in accordance with Sections IV of Schedules 2 and 3 to this Agreement,
respectively. All withdrawals from the Program Loan Account shall be deposited
by the Bank into an account specified by the Borrower and acceptable to the
Bank.

2.03. The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to: (a) one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) of the Program Loan amount; and (b) one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Project Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-
end Fee to the Program Loan and the Project Loan not later than 60 days after the
Effective Date.

2.04 The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Program Loan Currency or Project Loan
Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Program Loan or Project Loan, the
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of
2.05.

2.06.

2.07.

the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the
Withdrawn Program Loan Balance or Withdrawn Project Loan Balance
remains unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty
days, then the interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as
provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General Conditions.

The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year.

The principal amount of the Program Loan and the Project Loan shall be repaid
in accordance with the provisions of Schedules 4 and 5 to this Agreement,
respectively.

(a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Program Loan and/or the Project Loan in order to
facilitate prudent debt management: (1) a change of the Loan Currency of
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Program Loan and/or the
Project Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii)
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of
the principal amount of the Program Loan and/or the Project Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice
versa; or (B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Program
Loan and/or the Project Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable
Rate based on a Reference Rate and the Variable Spread to a Variable
Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the Variable Spread, or vice
versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Program Loan and/or the
Project Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Program Loan and/or the
Project Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an
Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the
Reference Rate.

(b) Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.

ARTICLE III — PROGRAM
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Operation. To this
end, the Borrower shall cause, pursuant to the provisions of the Subsidiary

Agreement: (a) the Operation Implementing Entity, through SEFIN, to carry out
the Operation; and (b) the Participating Agencies to assist the Operation

-2-
3.02.

4.01.

4.02.

5.01.

Implementing Entity in the carrying out of selected activities under the Operation
that fall under their administrative and territorial jurisdiction pursuant to the
pertinent Participating Agency Agreement; all in accordance with the provisions
of Article V of the respective General Conditions.

Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause the Operation Implementing Entity, pursuant to the provisions of the
Subsidiary Agreement, to ensure that the Operation is carried out in accordance
with the provisions of Schedules 2 and 3 to this Agreement, as applicable.

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:

(a) The Operation Implementing Entity shall have failed to comply with any
of its obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement.

(b) An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any
action under the Program Action Plan in a manner so as to affect
materially and adversely in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of the
Operation Implementing Entity to carry out the Operation.

The Additional Events of Acceleration consist of the following, namely that the
events specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement occur
and are continuing for a period of 60 days after notice of the event has been given
by the Bank to the Borrower.

ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:

(a) The Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower
and the Operation Implementing Entity.

(b) The Participating Agency Agreements have been executed on behalf of
each respective Participating Agency and the Operation Implementing

Entity.

(c) The Operational Manual has been duly approved and adopted by the
Operation Implementing Entity, through SEFIN.

-3-
5.02.

5.03.

6.01.

6.02.

6.03.

The Additional Legal Matters consist of the following:

(a) The Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the
Borrower and the Operation Implementing Entity and is legally binding
upon the Borrower and the Operation Implementing Entity in accordance
with its terms.

(b) The Participating Agency Agreements have been duly authorized or
ratified by the Operation Implementing Entity and each respective
Participating Agency, and each said agreement is legally binding upon
the Operation Implementing Entity and each respective Participating
Agency, in accordance with its terms.

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety days (90) days after the date of this
Agreement, but in no case later than eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s

approval of the Program Loan and Project Loan which expire on December 4,
2015.

ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

The Borrower’s Representative is its Planning, Analysis and Control Director
(Directora de Planeacion, Analisis y Contraloria).

The Borrower’s Address is:

Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos, S.N.C.
Javier Barros Sierra, 515

Colonia Lomas de Santa Fe, Delegacién Alvaro Obregon
México DF, 01219

Telex: Facsimile:

(52-55) 5270-1200 (52-55) 5270-1564

The Bank’s Address 1s:

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America

Cable address: Telex: Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 64145(MCI)

-4-
AGREED at Mexico I ily, Me MEQ , as of the day

and year first above written.

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

 
  

By

  

WY
Yo sf Nohni
ky \airecton
oe,
BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y

SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.N.C, INSTITUCION DE
BANCA DE DESARROLLO

   

Authorize

Name:

 
  

Title:

By

ye Bat an ole oe pol Ay

Authorized Representative

Name: Veronica Garanda Seoulveda
Title: Directora de Planeeciin, Andlisis y (ontraloria

-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Operation Description
The objectives of the Operation are to: (i) support the improvement of the
institutional framework of the WSS sector of the Operation Implementing Entity; and
(ii) improve the quality and sustainability of water supply service in Selected Urban
Areas.

The Operation consists of the following:

Part I: Program

 

The Program consists of the following activities:

1. Modernization of the Operation Implementing Entity’s WSS sector legal and
regulatory framework:

Drafting key legislation and regulations of the WSS sector to align them with
the Operation Implementing Entity’s vision to modernize the WSS sector’s
institutional framework, including inter alia, the development of: (a) a WSS
sector law and related regulations; (b) standard regulations for municipal or
inter-municipal WSS service provision; (c) the SAPAO law; and (d) the CEA
and SAPAO organizational manuals and internal regulations.

2. Improvement of water services in the San Juan Chapultepec Sector:

Improving the quality and efficiency of water service in the San Juan
Chapultepec Sector, through, inter alia: (a) the rehabilitation of the boreholes
supplying the sector; (b) the construction of interconnection between the
boreholes and water treatment facility; (c) the construction of an
interconnection with main distribution lines; (d) the construction of a water
treatment facility; (e) the construction of a pumping station; (f) the
construction of a transmission line from the pumping station to storage tanks;
(g) the rehabilitation and construction of storage tanks; (h) the rehabilitation,
hydraulic optimization and sectorization of the water distribution network; (1)
the rehabilitation of water connections and the installation of micro-metering;
(j) the installation of macro-metering and pressure gauges; (k) the update of
the network mapping and commercial system; and (1) the carrying out of
WSS studies, preparation of bidding documents and works supervision.

3. Improvement of water services in Selected Secondary Towns:
Improving the quality of water services and the financial sustainability of the

water utilities of Selected Secondary Towns through, inter alia: (a) the

-6-
rehabilitation and extension of production, storage and pumping systems; (b)
the rehabilitation, hydraulic optimization and sectorization of the water
network; (c) the rehabilitation of water connections; (d) the installation of
macro and micro metering and pressure gauges; (e) the update of the network
mapping and commercial systems; (f) the improvement of accounting
systems; and (g) the carrying out of WSS studies, preparation of bidding
documents and works supervision.

Improvement of information in Selected Rural Areas:

Establishing an information system on the sustainability of rural WSS service
providers in Selected Rural Areas, through: (a) the provision of information
technology infrastructure and equipment and carrying out of training in the
use of said information technology’s systems; and (b) the carrying out of data
survey activities.

Part II; Technical Assistance (the Project)

I.

Provision of technical assistance to improve the Program’s performance and
increase the likelihood to achieve its objective, including, inter alia: the
provision of technical assistance to SAPAO, CEA and water utilities in
Selected Secondary Towns to improve the planning of activities, review the
quality of the bidding documents, strengthen the supervision of the works
and improve the operational, commercial, social and environmental
management of the water systems’ operations.

Carrying out of WSS sector studies, including: (a) a rural and urban water
supply and sanitation strategy for the long-term development and
organization of the sector; (b) a public expenditure review of the Oaxaca
WSS sector; and (c) the design of a pilot program to provide sustainable rural
WSS implementation and support services.

Provision of support to the Operation’s management activities, including,
inter alia (a) the provision of technical assistance for the carrying out of
technical audits of DLI compliance under the Program; (b) the hiring of
Program coordinators; (c) the carrying out of training and provision of
technical assistance to SEFIN and the Participating Agencies to strengthen
their fiduciary systems; and (d) the financing of the financial audits for the
Operation.

-7-
SCHEDULE 2

Program Execution

Section I. Implementation Arrangements

A.

Program Fiduciary, Environmental and Social Systems

Without limitation on the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions for
the Program, the Borrower shall cause the Operation Implementing Entity,
pursuant to the provisions of the Subsidiary Agreement, to carry out the Program
in accordance with financial management, procurement and environmental and
social management systems acceptable to the Bank (“Program Fiduciary,
Environmental and Social Systems”) which are designed to ensure that:

the Program Loan proceeds are used for their intended purposes, with due
attention to the principles of economy, efficiency, effectiveness, transparency,
and accountability; and

the actual and potential adverse environmental and social impacts of the Program
are identified, avoided, minimized, or mitigated, as the case may be, all through
an informed decision-making process.

Anti-Corruption

Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall:
(a) carry out its obligations under this Agreement in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines for the Program; and (b) cause the
Operation Implementing Entity, pursuant to the provisions of the Subsidiary
Agreement, to carry out the Program in accordance with the provisions of the
Anti-Corruption Guidelines for the Program.

Other Program Institutional and Implementation Arrangements

Program Institutions

Without limitation on the generality of Part A of this Section I, the Borrower
shall cause:

(a) the Operation Implementing Entity, pursuant to the provisions of the
Subsidiary Agreement, to carry out the Program through SEFIN, and to
operate, at all times, during the implementation of the Program, with
powers, functions, capacity and resources satisfactory to the Bank to
discharge such functions under the Program.
(b)

the Operation Implementing Entity, pursuant to the provisions of the
Subsidiary Agreement, to cause each Participating Agency to maintain
adequate staff in sufficient numbers to carry out the activities under the
Program that fall within their administrative jurisdiction, and to operate,
at all times, during the implementation of the Program, with powers,
functions, capacity and resources satisfactory to the Bank to discharge
such functions under the Program.

Subsidiary Agreement

(a)

(b)

To facilitate the carrying out of the Program, the Borrower shall make
the proceeds of the Program Loan available to the Operation
Implementing Entity under a subsidiary agreement between the Borrower
and the Operation Implementing Entity, under terms and conditions
approved by the Bank, in respect of the Program (“Subsidiary
Agreement’).

The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations in
respect of the Program under the Subsidiary Agreement in such manner
as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to
accomplish the purposes of the Program Loan. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, terminate,
abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Agreement or any of its provisions.

Implementation Agreements

(a)

(b)

To facilitate the carrying out of the Program, the Borrower shall cause
the Operation Implementing Entity, pursuant to the provisions of the
Subsidiary Agreement, to enter into an agreement (the Participating
Agency Agreement) with each Participating Agency, all under terms and
conditions approved by the Bank, in respect of the Program which shall
include, inter alia, the obligation of each Participating Agency to: (i)
carry out the activities which fall within its administrative jurisdiction
under the Program in accordance with the pertinent provisions set forth
in Article V of the General Conditions for the Program; and (ii) comply
with the pertinent provisions of this Schedule as applicable to said
Participating Agency, including compliance with the provisions of the
Anti-Corruption Guidelines for the Program.

The Borrower shall cause the Operation Implementing Entity, pursuant
to the provisions of the Subsidiary Agreement, to exercise its rights and
carry out its obligations under each Participating Agency Agreement in
such manner as to protect the interests of the Operation Implementing
Entity and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Program
Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause

-9-
the Operation Implementing Entity, pursuant to the provisions of the
Subsidiary Agreement, not to assign, amend, abrogate, terminate, waive
or fail to enforce any Participating Agency Agreement or any of its
provisions.

4. Selected Entity Results Agreements

(a)

(b)

To facilitate the implementation of Part I.3 of the Program, the Borrower
shall cause the Operation Implementing Entity, pursuant to the
provisions of the Subsidiary Agreement, to cause CEA to enter into an
agreement (the Selected Entity Results Agreement) with each Selected
Entity, all under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, which
shall include, inter alia, the obligation of each Selected Entity to: (1)
achieve implementation targets; (11) comply with the provisions of the
Anti-Corruption Guidelines for the Program; and (iii) maintain and
operate the water networks under their administrative jurisdiction.

The Borrower shall cause the Operation Implementing Entity, pursuant
to the provisions of the Subsidiary Agreement, to cause CEA to exercise
its rights and carry out its obligations under each Selected Entity Results
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Operation
Implementing Entity and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Program Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause the Operation Implementing Entity, pursuant to the
provisions of the Subsidiary Agreement, to cause CEA not to assign,
amend, abrogate, terminate, waive or fail to enforce any Selected Entity
Results Agreement or any of its provisions.

5. Operational Manual

(a)

(b)

Without limitation on the generality of Part A of this Section I, and
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause the
Operation Implementing Entity, pursuant to the provisions of the
Subsidiary Agreement, to carry out the Program in accordance with the
provisions of the Operational Manual.

Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause the
Operation Implementing Entity, pursuant to the provisions of the
Subsidiary Agreement, not to amend, waive or fail to enforce any
provision of the Operational Manual without the Bank’s prior written
consent. In case of any conflict between the terms of the Operational
Manual and those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall
prevail.

-10-
Additional Program Implementation Arrangements

Without limitation on the generality of Part A of this Section I, and unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause the Operation
Implementing Entity, pursuant to the provisions of the Subsidiary Agreement, to:
(a) carry out, the actions within the Program Action Plan which fall under its
administrative jurisdiction; and (b) cause the Participating Agencies to carry out
the actions within the Program Action Plan which fall under their administrative
Jurisdiction, all in accordance with the terms of the Program Action Plan and in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank.

Section II. Excluded Activities

The Borrower shall ensure, and cause the Operation Implementing Entity to
ensure, that the Program excludes any activities which:

in the opinion of the Bank, are likely to have significant adverse impacts that are
sensitive, diverse, or unprecedented on the environment and/or affected people;
or

involve the procurement of: (a) works, estimated to cost $50,000,000 equivalent
or more per contract; (b) goods, estimated to cost $30,000,000 equivalent or
more per contract; (c) non-consulting services, estimated to cost $20,000,000
equivalent or more per contract; or (d) consultants’ services, estimated to cost
$15,000.000 equivalent or more per contract.

Section ITI. Program Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation; Audits

A.

Program Reports

The Borrower shall cause the Operation Implementing Entity, pursuant to the
provisions of the Subsidiary Agreement, to monitor and evaluate the progress of
the Program and prepare Program Reports in accordance with the provisions of
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions for the Program. Each Program Report
shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the
Bank not later than forty five days after the end of the period covered by such
report.

Program Financial Audits

Without limitation on the generality of Section L.A of this Schedule 2 and Section
5.09 of the General Conditions for the Program, the Borrower shall cause the
Operation Implementing Entity, pursuant to the provisions of the Subsidiary
Agreement, to have the Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions for the Program. The

-|1-
first audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period from the Effective

‘Date until the end of the following calendar year and each subsequent audit shall
cover one fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each
such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end
of such period.

C. Technical Audits

The Borrower shall cause the Operation Implementing Entity, pursuant to the
provisions of the Subsidiary Agreement, to: (a) not later than December 31,
2014, hire independent verification agents under terms of reference satisfactory
to the Bank, to carry out the verification of compliance of the DLIs; and (b) cause
said independent verification agents to, not later than thirty days after each
verification of compliance of the DLIs has been completed, prepare and furnish
to the Borrower, the Operation Implementing Entity and the Bank, a report on the
results of said verification of compliance process of such scope and in such detail
as the Bank shall reasonably request.

Section IV. Withdrawal of Program Loan Proceeds

A. General

l. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Program Loan in accordance
with the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions for the Program, this
Section, and such additional instructions as the Bank may specify from time to
time by notice to the Borrower to finance the Program Expenditures, on the basis
of the results (“Disbursement Linked Results” or “DLRs”) achieved by the
Operation Implementing Entity, as measured against specific indicators
(“Disbursement Linked Indicators” or “DLIs”); all as set forth in the table in
paragraph 2 of this Part A.

2. The following table specifies each category of withdrawal of the proceeds of the
Program Loan (including the Disbursement Linked Indicators as applicable)
(“Category for the Program”), the Disbursement Linked Results for each
Category for the Program (as applicable), and the allocation of the amounts of the
Program Loan to each Category for the Program:

-|2-
Category for the Program
(including Disbursement
Linked
Indicator as applicable

(1) First DLI:

1. Modernization of the Operation
Implementing Entity’s legal and
regulatory framework governing
the WSS sector.

Amount of the Loan
Allocated
(expressed in USD)

Disbursement Linked
Result

l(a) A new Water Supply} $2,000,000
and Sanitation Bill of

Law has been submitted

to the Operation

Implementing Entity’s

Congress for approval

thereby by December 31,

2017;

1(b) (1) Regulations for
the Water Supply and
Sanitation Law have been
issued and are in force
and effect;

$500,000

1(b) (11) Regulations for
the provision of
municipal water and
sanitation services have
been prepared;

$500,000

1(b) (iii) The amendment } $500,000
to the SAPAO Law has

been submitted to the

Operation Implementing

Entity’s Congress for

approval thereby;

1(b) (iv) CEA has issued | $500,000
its updated internal

regulations and its revised
organizational manual

which have been

published and are in full

force and effect; and

 

-13-
  
       
   
     
 
    
   

  

1 (b) (v) SAPAO has
issued its updated internal
regulations and its revisec
organizational manual
which have been
published and are in full
force and effect.

$500,000

(2) Second DLI:

  
     
   
 
     
 
   
   
 
    
  
   
 
      
    
 
    
   
   
   
  

  
 

2.1 Improvement of quality of $1,000,000

water service.

2.1 (1) SAPAO has
prepared the Expedientes
Técnicos for the
rehabilitation and/or
construction of the Micro
Distribution System and
Macro Distribution
System of the San Juan
Chapultepec Sector by
December 31, 2017.

  

2.1 (ii) The components
of the Macro Distribution
System have been
rehabilitated and/or
constructed in the San
Juan Chapultepec Sector
in accordance with the
Expedientes Técnicos and
are In operation:

 
 

(A) Component | $1,000,000

(B) Component 2 $1,000,000

(C) Component 3 $1,000,000

    
   
  

$1,500,000/30 ($50,000)
for each percentage point
up to 30%; and (11)
$1,500,000/70 ($21,429)
for each percentage point
from 31% up to 100%,
all up to an amount of

2.1 (iii) Percentage of
Active Users with
Continuous Water Suppl
service in the San Juan
Chapultepec Sector

    
     
   
 

-14-
2.2 Percentage of Commercial
Efficiency in the provision of
water supply service in the San
Juan Chapultepec Sector from a
baseline of 49%.

(3) Third DLI

3.1 Number of water utilities
operating in Selected Secondary

Towns that have a Program of
Interventions of Immediate
Impact by December 31, 2017.

3.2 Number of water utilities
operating in Selected Secondary
Towns with Improved Service
Continuity.

3.3 Number of water utilities
operating in Selected Secondary
Towns whose Revenue from
Services is greater than their
Operating Expenses.

-15-

$3,000,000.

(i) $500,000/6 ($83,333)
for each percentage point
from 49% up to 55%; (ii)
$500,000/15 ($33,333)
for each percentage point
from 56% up to 70%;
and (iii) $500,000/20
($25,000) for each
percentage point from
71% up to 90%, all up to
an amount of
$1,500,000.

$2,000,000/18
($111,111) per each
water utility up to
$2,000,000.

(i) $3,500,000/3
($1,166,666) for each
water utility up to 3; and
(11) $3,500,000/5
($700,000) for each
water utility from 4 up to
18, all up to
$14,000,000.

(1) $3,500,000/3
($1,166,666) for each
water utility up to 3; and
(11) $3,500,000/5
($700,000) for each
water utility from 4 up to
18 all up to $14,000,000

 
 
   
  

(4) Fourth DLI

 
 
      
     
 
    
   

4. Percentage of Selected Rural $20,000 per each
Areas with information integrated percentage point up to
in the Rural Water and Sanitation $2,000,000.

Information System in accordance
with its data collection form.

TOTAL AMOUNT FY $45,000,000

B. Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

l. Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made:
(a) from the Program Loan Account until the Bank has received payrnent

in full of the Front-end Fee.

(b) for purposes of Section 2.05 of the General Conditions, for payments for
Program Expenditures made prior to the date of this Agreement.

(c) for any DLR referred to in the table in Part A.2 of this Section, until and
unless the Borrower has furnished evidence satisfactory to the Bank that
said DLR has been achieved on terms and in a manner acceptable to the
Bank.

(d) for DLRs 1(b)(1), 1(b)(i1), 1(b)(ii1), 1b(iv) and 1(b)(v) even if said DLRs
have been met prior to DLR | (a), until and unless the Borrower has
furnished evidence satisfactory to the Bank that DLR 1 (a) has been
achieved on terms and in a manner acceptable to the Bank.

(e) for DLR 2.1(ii) even if said DLR has been met prior to DLR 2.1 (i), until
and unless the Borrower has furnished evidence satisfactory to the Bank
that DLR 2.1 (i) has been achieved on terms and in a manner acceptable
to the Bank.

2 Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.1 of this Section the Borrower may
withdraw an amount not to exceed the equivalent of $11,250,000 as an advance;
provided, however, that if any DLR set forth in the table in Part A.2 of this
Section is in the opinion of the Bank, not achieved or is only partially achieved
by the Closing Date, the Borrower shall promptly refund to the Bank such
advance, or any portion of such advance as determined by the Bank, upon notice

-16-
thereof from the Bank. Except as otherwise agreed with the Borrower, the Bank
shall cancel the amount so refunded. Any further withdrawals requested as an
advance under any Category for the Program shall be permitted only on such
terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.

The Closing Date is December 31, 2019.

Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section IV, if at any time after
the Closing Date the Borrower has failed to provide evidence satisfactory to the
Bank that the Withdrawn Program Loan Balance does not exceed the total
amount of Program Expenditures paid by the Borrower, exclusive of any such
expenditures financed by any other financier or by the Bank or the Association
under any other loan, credit or grant, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such excess amount of the Withdrawn
Program Loan Balance. The Bank shall cancel the refunded amount of the
Withdrawn Loan Balance.

-17-
SCHEDULE 3

Project Execution

Section I. Implementation Arrangements

A.

Institutional Arrangements

The Borrower shall cause the Operation Implementing Entity, pursuant to the
provisions of the Subsidiary Agreement, to carry out the Project through SEFIN,
and to operate, at all times, during the implementation of the Project, with
powers, functions, capacity and resources satisfactory to the Bank to discharge
such functions under the Project.

Subsidiary Agreement

To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make the proceeds
of the Project Loan available to the Operation Implementing Entity through the
Subsidiary Agreement, under terms and conditions approved by the Bank in
respect of the Project.

The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations in respect of
the Project under the Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Project Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not
assign, amend, terminate, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Agreement or any of
its provisions.

Implementation Agreements

To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall cause the
Operation Implementing Entity, pursuant to the provisions of the Subsidiary
Agreement, to make part of the proceeds of the Project Loan available tc the
each of the Participating Agencies under the pertinent Participating Agency
Agreement, under terms and conditions approved by the Bank in respect of the
Project, which shall include, inter alia, the obligation of each Participating
Agency to: (a) carry out the activities which fall within its administrative
jurisdiction under the Project in accordance with the pertinent provisions set forth
in Article V of the General Conditions for the Project; and (b) comply with the
pertinent provisions of this Schedule as applicable to said Participating Agency,
including compliance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines for
the Project.

The Borrower shall cause the Operation Implementing Entity, pursuant to the
provisions of the Subsidiary Agreement, exercise its rights and carry out its

-18-
obligations under each Participating Agency Agreement in such manner as to
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Project Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause the Operation Implementing Entity, pursuant to the
provisions of the Subsidiary Agreement, not assign, amend, abrogate, terminate,
waive or fail to enforce any Participating Agency Agreement or any of its
provisions.

Operational Manual

Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause the Operation Implementing Entity, pursuant to the provisions of the
Subsidiary Agreement, to carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions
of the Operational Manual.

Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause the Operation
Implementing Entity, pursuant to the provisions of the Subsidiary Agreement, not
to amend, waive or fail to enforce any provision of the Operational Manual
without the Bank’s prior written consent. In case of any conflict between the
terms of the Operational Manual and those of this Agreement, the terms of this
Agreement shall prevail.

Anti-Corruption

Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall:
(a) carry out its obligations under this Agreement in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines for the Project; and (b) cause the
Operation Implementing Entity, pursuant to the provisions of the Subsidiary
Agreement, to carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-
Corruption Guidelines for the Project.

Safeguards

The Borrower shall cause the Operation Implementing Entity, pursuant to the
provisions of the Subsidiary Agreement, to ensure that the terms of reference for
non-consulting services and for consultants’ services under such activities of the
Project be satisfactory to the Bank following its review thereby, and to that end
said terms of reference shall incorporate the requirements of the Bank Safeguards
Policies then in force and as applicable, all in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.

-19-
Section II. Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

A.

Project Reports

The Borrower shall cause the Operation Implementing Entity, pursuant to the
provisions of the Subsidiary Agreement, to monitor and evaluate the progress of
the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions for the Project and on the basis of
indicators acceptable to the Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the period of
one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty five
days after the end of the period covered by such report.

Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits

The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions for the Project.

Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
cause the Operation Implementing Entity, pursuant to the provisions of the
Subsidiary Agreement, to prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty five
days after the end of each calendar semester, interim unaudited financial reports
for the Project covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank.

The Borrower shall cause the Operating Implementing Entity, pursuant to the
provisions of the Subsidiary Agreement, to have the Financial Statements audited
in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions
for the Project. The first audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period
from the Effective Date until the end of the following calendar year and each
subsequent audit shall cover one fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later
than six months after the end of such period.

Section III. Procurement

General

Goods and Non-consulting Services. All goods and non-consulting services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Project
Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred
to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this
Section.

-20-
Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Project Loan shall be procured in
accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of
the Consultant Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.

Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, [V and V of the Consultant
Guidelines, as the case may be.

Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-consulting Services

National Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2
below, goods and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding procedures.

Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-consulting Services. The
following methods, other than National Competitive Bidding, may be used for
procurement of goods and non-consulting services for those contracts specified in
the Procurement Plan: (a) Shopping; and (b) Direct Contracting.

Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services

Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.

Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants’ services for those contracts which are specified in
the Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based Selection; (b) Selection under a Fixed
Budget; (c) Least Cost Selection; (d) Selection based on Consultants’
Qualifications; and (e) Single-source Selection of consulting firms.

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank’s Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.

Special Provisions

The Borrower through SEFIN shall: (a) supply the SEPA with the information

contained in the initial Procurement Plan within 30 days after the date of this

-2|-
Agreement; and (b) update the Procurement Plan at least once a year, or as
required by the World Bank, to reflect the actual Project implementation needs
and progress, and supply the SEPA with the information contained in the updated
Procurement Plan immediately thereafter.

-22-
Section IV. Withdrawal of Project Loan Proceeds
A. General

l. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Project Loan in accordance with
the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions for the Project, this Section,
and such additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower (including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects”
dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance the Project
Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.

2. The following table specifies the categories of Project Eligible Expenditures that
may be financed out of the proceeds of the Project Loan (“Category for the
Project”), the allocation of the amounts of the Project Loan to each Category for
the Project, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Project Eligible
Expenditures in each Category for the Project.

   
    
   

    
   
   
 
 
 

Amount of the Project Percentage of

 
    
  

     

Loan Expenditures to be
Allocated financed
Category for the Project (expressed in USD) (inclusive of Taxes)

   
 

Goods, consultants’
services, Non-consulting
services, Training and
Operating Costs for the
Project

TOTAL AMOUNT $10,000,000 PO

For purposes of this paragraph the terms:

   

$10,000,000 100%

 
     
 

  
 

  

(a) “Operating Costs for the Project” means incremental operating costs incurred by the
Operation Implementing Entity on account of Project implementation, management
and monitoring; and

(b) “Training” means Operation related study tours, training courses, seminars,
workshops and other training activities, not included under goods or service
providers’ contracts, including costs of training materials, space and equipment
rental, travel, accommodation and per diem costs of trainees and trainers, trainers’
fees, and other training related miscellaneous costs.

-23-
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made:

(a) from the Project Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in
full of the Front-end Fee for the Project Loan; or

(b) for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.

The Closing Date is December 31, 2019.

-24-
SCHEDULE 4
Amortization Schedule for the Program

1. The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Program Loan
and the percentage of the total principal amount of the Program Loan payable on
each Principal Payment Date (“Installment Share”). If the proceeds of the
Program Loan have been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date,
the principal amount of the Program Loan repayable by the Borrower on each
Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a)
Withdrawn Program Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b)
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to
be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of
this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.

Principal Payment Date Installment Share
Expressed as a Percentage

On each June 15 and December 15
Beginning June 15, 2019
Through June 15, 2031 3.85%

On December 15, 2031 3.75%

2. If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Program Loan repayable by the
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:

    
          

(a) To the extent that any proceeds of the Program Loan have been
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall
repay the Withdrawn Program Loan Balance as of such date in
accordance with paragraph | of this Schedule.

(b) Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”)
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.

-25-
(a) Amounts of the Program Loan withdrawn within two calendar months
prior to any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of
calculating the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment
Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal
Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on
each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal
Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.

(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs | and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Program Loan
Balance to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved
Currency that is repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the
Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount
in its currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either:
(a) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved
Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to
the Conversion; or (b) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.

If the Withdrawn Program Loan Balance is denominated in more than one
Program Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to
the amount denominated in each Program Loan Currency, so as to produce a
separate amortization schedule for each such amount.

-26-
SCHEDULE 5
Amortization Schedule for the Project

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Project Loan
and the percentage of the total principal amount of the Project Loan payable on
each Principal Payment Date (“Installment Share”). If the proceeds of the Project
Loan have been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the
principal amount of the Project Loan repayable by the Borrower on each
Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a)
Withdrawn Project Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b)
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to
be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of
this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.

Principal Payment Date Installment Share
Expressed as a Percentage

On each June 15 and December 15
Beginning June 15, 2019
Through June 15, 2031 3.85%

On December 15, 2031 3.75%

If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Project Loan repayable by the
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:

   

   
     
     

(a) To the extent that any proceeds of the Program Loan have been
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall
repay the Withdrawn Project Loan Balance as of such date in accordance
with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.

(b) Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”)
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.

-27-
(a) Amounts of the Project Loan withdrawn within two calendar months
prior to any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of
calculating the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment
Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal
Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on
each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal
Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.

(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs | and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Project Loan
Balance to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved
Currency that is repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the
Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount
in its currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either:
(a) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved
Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to
the Conversion; or (b) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.

If the Withdrawn Project Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Project
Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the
amount denominated in each Project Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate
amortization schedule for each such amount.

-28-
APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

l.

“Active Users” means customers which have a service contract with SAPAO to
receive piped water supply service.

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines for the Program” means the Bank’s “Guidelines on
Preventing and Combating Fraud and Corruption in Program-for-Results
Financing,” dated February 1, 2012, applicable to the Program.

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines for the Project” means the “Guidelines on
Preventing and Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 and revised in
January 2011.

“Bank Safeguards Policies’ means the Bank’s operational policies and
procedures, set forth in the Bank’s operational manual and identified as OP/BP
4.01, 4.04, 4.09, 4.10. 4.11, 4.12, 4.36, 4.37, 7.50 and 7.60, as said manual is

published under www. WorldBank.org/opmanual.

“BANOBRAS” means Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos, S.N.C,
Institucion de Banca de Desarrollo.

“Category for the Program” means a category set forth in the table in Section
IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Category for the Project” means a category set forth in the table in
Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

“CEA” means Comision Estatal del Agua, the Operation Implementing Entity’s
State Water Commission created pursuant to the Operation Implementing
Entity’s Decree No. 5, dated December 4, 2004, as amended to the date of this
agreement.

“Commercial Efficiency” means the ratio between the water utilities’ revenues
collected and the cost of providing water service, as measured in accordance with
the provisions set forth in the Operational Manual.

“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of

Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers” dated January 2011.

-29-
13.

14.

15.

20.

“Continuous Water Supply” means the reliability of water supply service
provided by SAPAO in the San Juan Chapultepec Sector, which is measured in
accordance to a methodology set forth in the Operational Manual.

“Disbursement Linked Indicator” or “DLI”’ means in respect of a given Category
for the Program, the indicator related to said Category for the Program as set
forth in the table in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Disbursement Linked Result” or “DLR” means in respect of a given Category
for the Program, the result under said Category for the Program as set forth in the
table in Section [V.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, on the basis of the
achievement of which, the amount of the Program Loan allocated to said result
may be withdrawn in accordance with the provisions of said Section IV.

“Expedientes Técnicos” means a set of documents to be prepared by SAPAO
comprising engineering studies, technical specifications, budget, social and
environmental feasibility assessments and legal requisites such as deeds and
property occupation agreements needed to assure the correct deployment of the
bidding, contracting and construction processes for the carrying out of civil
works under Part I.2 and I.3 of the Program.

“General Conditions” means the General Conditions for the Program and/or the
General Conditions for the Project (as defined herein), as applicable.

“General Conditions for the Program” means the “International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated March
12, 2012, with the modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.

“General Conditions for the Project” means the “International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated March
12, 2012, with the modifications set forth in Section III of this Appendix.

“Improved Service Continuity” means the reliability of water supply service
provided by water utilities operating in Selected Secondary Towns, which is
measured in accordance to a methodology set forth in the Operational Manual.

“Micro Distribution System” means the micro distribution system of water
service for the San Juan Chapultepec Sector which includes, inter alia, the
Program activities under Part I. 2 (h) and [.2 (i) of the Program, and which are
further defined in the Operational Manual.

“Macro Distribution System” means the macro distribution system of water
service for the San Juan Chapultepec Sector which includes the following
Program activities: (i) Component 1: the activities under Part I.2 (a), (b) and (c)
of the Program; (ii) Component 2: the activities under Part [.2 (d) of the Program;

-30-
21.

22.

23.

24.

25.

26.

27.

28.

and (iii) Component 3: the activities under Part I.2 (e), (f) and (g) of the Program,
all of which are further defined in the Operational Manual.

“Operating Expenses” means the expenses incurred by water utilities that are
necessary for delivering WSS services, as calculated in accordance with the
provisions are set forth in the Operational Manual.

“Operation” means the Program and the Project (as defined herein) jointly
conceived as interrelated to each other.

“Operation Implementing Entity’ means the State of Oaxaca, a_ political
subdivision of the Guarantor, pursuant to article 43 of the Guarantor’s political
constitution and articles 1, 26 and 28 of the Operation Implementing Entity’s
political constitution.

“Operational Manual” means a manual, satisfactory to the Bank, which shall
contain, inter alia, specific provisions on detailed arrangements for the carrying
out of the Operation, including, inter alia:

(a) for the Program: (i) the verification protocol to check compliance with the
DLRs; (ii) the detailed arrangements for disbursement of DLRs; (iii) the
definition and methodology to calculate, as the case may be, the San Juan
Chapultepec Sector, Commercial Efficiency, Continuous Water Supply,
Improved Service Continuity, Micro Distribution System, Macro Distribution
System, Operating Expenses, Program of Interventions of Immediate Impact,
Revenue from Services, and Selected Entities; and (iv) the Program Action Plan;
and

(b) for the Project: (i) the procedures for the carrying out, monitoring and
evaluation of the Project; (ii) the Project procurement, financial management and
audit requirements and procedures; (iii) the institutional arrangements for the
Project; and (iv) the performance indicators for the Project.

“Participating Agency” means CEA and/or SAPAO, and the plural thereof means
all of such agencies collectively.

“Participating Agency Agreement” means any of the agreements set forth in
Sections I.C.3 (a) and I.C.1 of Schedules 2 and 3 of this Agreement, respectively.

“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers” dated January 2011.

“Procurement Plan” means the Operation Implementing Entity’s procurement

plan for the Project, dated April 9, 2014 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the

-31-
29.

30.

31.

32.

33.

34.

35.

36.

37.

38.

Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the
same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said
paragraphs.

“Program” means the activities described in Part I of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.

"Program Action Plan" means the Operation Implementing Entity’s plan for the
Program referred to in Section I.C.6 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and set
forth in the Operational Manual, as said plan may be amended from time to time
with the agreement of the Bank.

“Program Fiduciary and Environmental and Social Systems” means _ the
Operation Implementing Entity’s systems for the Program referred to in Section
1.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Program of Interventions of Immediate Impact” means the preparation of
priority interventions in a Selected Secondary Town which includes, inter alia,
the identification of priority measures to improve the continuity of water supply
service and the coverage of expenditures by service revenues, the identification
of priority measures to ensure the operation of tools necessary for measuring
performance indicators, and the preparation of the Expendientes Técnicos
corresponding to these priority measures, and which is further defined in the
Operational Manual. |

“Project” means the activities described in Part II of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.

“Revenue from Services” means all revenues resulting from the provision of
WASS services, as calculated in accordance with the provisions set forth in the
Operational Manual.

“Rural Water and Sanitation Information System” means the Sistema de Agua y
Saneamiento Rural (SIASAR), or any other similar system acceptable to the Bank
to be developed under Part I.4 of the Operation.

“San Juan Chapultepec Sector” means an area comprised of the Co/onias listed in
the Operational Manual, which receives WSS services by SAPAO.

“SAPAO” means Servicios de Agua Potable y Alcantarillado de Oaxaca, the
Operation Implementing Entity’s Metropolitan Area Water Utility created
pursuant to the SAPAO Law, as amended to the date of this Agreement.

“SAPAO Law” means the Operation Implementing Entity’s law (Ley del

Organismo Operador Publico denominado Servicios de Agua Potable y

-32-
39.

40.

4).

42.

43.

44.

45.

46.

47.

48.

Alcantarillado de Oaxaca), duly published in the Operation Implementing
Entity’s official gazette on November 28, 2013.

““SEFIN” means the State of Oaxaca’s Finance Secretariat.

“Selected Entity” means: (1) the municipalities within the Selected Secondary
Towns which have the responsibility to operate the water networks within their
jurisdiction; and (ii) water utilities with separate legal capacity operating in some
Selected Secondary Towns; all listed in the Operational Manual.

“Selected Entity Results Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in
Section I.C.4 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Selected Rural Areas” means the localities within the State of Oaxaca with a
population from 500 to 2,500 inhabitants.

“Selected Secondary Towns” means the towns of Heroica Ciudad de Huajuapan
de Leon, Loma Bonita, Miahuatlan de Porfirio Diaz, Ocotlan de Morelos, San
Juan Bautista Tuxtepec, Heroica Ciudad de Tlaxiaco, Zimatlan de Alvarez,
Asuncion Ixtaltepec, Ciudad Ixtepec, El Espinal, Heroica Ciudad de Juchitan de
Zaragoza, Matias Romero Avendano, Salina Cruz, San Francisco Telixtlahuaca,
Puerto Escondido, Santiago Pinotepa Nacional, Santo Domingo Tehuantepec,
Santo Domingo Zanatepec.

“Selected Urban Areas” means the San Juan Chapultepec Sector and Selected
Secondary Towns.

“SEPA” means the Bank’s Procurement Plan Execution System.

“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement (Contrato de Apertura de Credito)
referred to in Section I.C.2 (a) and B.1 of Schedule 2 and 3 to this Agreement,
respectively, pursuant to which the Borrower shall make the proceeds of the
Program Loan and Project Loan available to the Operation Implementing Entity.

“WSS” means water supply and sanitation.

“Water Supply and Sanitation Bill of Law” means the Operation Implementing
Entity’ bill of law for the WSS sector.

-33-
Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions for the Program

The modifications to the General Conditions for the Program are as follows:

l.

Wherever used throughout the General Conditions for the Program, the term
“Loan” is modified to read “Program Loan, the term “Loan Account” is modified
to read “the Program Loan Account”, the term “Loan Currency” is modified to
read “Program Loan Currency”, the term “Loan Payment” is modified to read
“Program Loan Payment”, the term “the Project” is modified to read “the
Program”, the term “the Project Agreement” is modified to read “the Operation
Agreement”, the term “Project Implementing Entity” is modified to read “the
Operation Implementing Entity”, the term “Project Report” is modified to read
“Program Report”, the term “Eligible Expenditures” is modified to read
“Program Expenditures”, the term “Unwithdrawn Loan Balance” is modified to
read “Unwithdrawn Program Loan Balance”; and the term “Withdrawn Loan
Balance” is modified to read “Withdrawn Program Loan Balance”.

The terms “Program Loan Account”, “Withdrawn Program Loan Balance”,
“Program Loan Payments” have the meanings ascribed to them in the General
Conditions for the Program. The terms “Withdrawn Project Loan Balance”,
“Project Loan Payments”, “Project Loan Account” have the meanings ascribed in
the General Conditions for the Project.

In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the amendments set out below.

Section 2.02, Special Commitment by the Bank, is deleted in its entirety, and the
subsequent Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly.

In Section 2.02 (originally numbered as Section 2.03), the heading “Applications
for Withdrawal or for Special Commitment” is replaced with “Applications for
Withdrawal’, and the phrase “or to request the Bank to enter into a Special
Commitment” is deleted.

The section originally numbered as Section 2.04, Designated Accounts is deleted
in its entirety, and the subsequent Sections in Article II are renumbered
accordingly.

Paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (originally numbered as Section 2.05), Eligible
Expenditures (renamed “Program Expenditures” in accordance with paragraph 1
of this Section II), is modified to read: “(a) the payment is for the financing of the
reasonable cost of expenditures required for the Program and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Program Loan in accordance with the provisions of the
Legal Agreements;”.

-34-
10.

11.

14.

The last sentence of Section 2.04 (originally numbered as Section 2.06),
Financing Taxes, is modified to read: “To that end, if the Bank at any time
determines that the amount of any such Tax is excessive, or that such Tax is
discriminatory or otherwise unreasonable, the Bank may, by notice to the
Borrower, exclude such amount or such Tax from the Program Expenditures to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, as required to ensure consistency
with such policy of the Bank.”

Section 2.06 (originally numbered as Section 2.08), Reallocation, the first
paragraph is modified to read: “Notwithstanding any allocation of an amount of
the Program Loan to a withdrawal category under the Loan Agreement, the Bank
may, by notice to the Borrower, reallocate any other amount of the Program Loan
to such category if the Bank reasonably determines at any time that such
reallocation is appropriate for the purposes of the Program.

Section 7.01, Cancellation by the Borrower, is modified to read: “The Borrower
may, by notice to the Bank, cancel any amount of the Unwithdrawn Program
Loan Balance.”

Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank. The first paragraph is modified to read: “If
any of the events specified in paragraphs (a) through (m) of this Section occurs
and is continuing, the Bank may, by notice to the Loan Parties, suspend in whole
or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Program Loan
Account and/or the Project Loan Account. Such suspension shall continue
until the event (or events) which gave rise to the suspension has (or have) ceased
to exist, unless the Bank has notified the Loan Parties that such right to make
withdrawals has been restored.”

Paragraph (d) of Section 7.03, Cancellation by the Bank, entitled
“Misprocurement’, is deleted, and subsequent paragraphs are relettered
accordingly.

Section 7.04, Amounts Subject to Special Commitment not Affected by
Cancellation or Suspension by the Bank, is deleted in its entirety, and subsequent
Sections in Article VII and references to such Sections are renumbered
accordingly.

Section 7.06. Events of Acceleration. The first paragraph is modified to read: “If
any of the events specified in paragraphs (a) through (f) of this Section occurs
and continues for the period specified (if any), then at any subsequent time
during the continuance of the event, the Bank may, by notice to the Loan Parties,
declare all or part of the Withdrawn Program Loan Balance and Withdrawn
Project Loan Balance as at the date of such notice to be due and payable
immediately together with any other Program Loan Payments and Project
Loan Payments due under the Loan Agreement or these General Conditions.

-35-
15.

16.

Upon any such declaration, such Withdrawn Program Loan Balance,
Withdrawn Project Loan Balance, Program Loan Payments and Project
Loan Payments shall become immediately due and payable.”

Section 9.05. Termination of Legal Agreements on Full Payment, is modified to
read: “The Legal Agreements and all obligations of the parties under the Legal
Agreements shall forthwith terminate upon full payment of the Withdrawn
Program Loan Balance, Withdrawn Project Loan Balance, and all other
Program Loan Payments and Project Loan Payments due.”

In the Appendix, Definitions, all references to Section numbers are modified, as
necessary, to reflect the modifications set forth above. In addition, the definition
of the term “Special Commitment” is deleted in its entirety, and all subsequent
paragraphs are renumbered accordingly.

Section III. Modifications to the General Conditions for the Project

The modifications to the General Conditions for the Project are as follows:

1.

Wherever used throughout the General Conditions for the Project, the term
“Loan” is modified to read “Project Loan, the term “Loan Account” is modified
to read “the Project Loan Account”, the term “Loan Currency” is modified to

. read “Project Loan Currency”, the term “Loan Payment” is modified to read

“Project Loan Payment”, the term “the Project Agreement” is modified to read
“the Operation Agreement”, the term “Project Implementing Entity is modified
to read “Operation Implementing Entity”, the term “Unwithdrawn Loan Balance”
is modified to read “Unwithdrawn Project Loan Balance”; and the term
“Withdrawn Loan Balance” is modified to read “Withdrawn Project Loan
Balance”.

The terms “Project Eligible Expenditure”, “Project Loan Account”, “Withdrawn
Project Loan Balance”, “Project Loan Payments” have the meanings ascribed to
them in the General Conditions for the Project. The terms “Withdrawn Program
Loan Balance”, “Program Loan Payments”, “Program Loan Account” have the
meanings ascribed in the General Conditions for the Program.

Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank. The first paragraph is modified to read: “If
any of the events specified in paragraphs (a) through (m) of this Section occurs
and is continuing, the Bank may, by notice to the Loan Parties, suspend in whole
or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Project Loan
Account and/or the Program Loan Account. Such suspension shall continue
until the event (or events) which gave rise to the suspension has (or have) ceased
to exist, unless the Bank has notified the Loan Parties that such right to make
withdrawals has been restored.”

-36-
4. Section 7.06. Events of Acceleration. The first paragraph is modified to read: “If
any of the events specified in paragraphs (a) through (f) of this Section occurs
and continues for the period specified (if any), then at any subsequent time
during the continuance of the event, the Bank may, by notice to the Loan Parties,
declare all or part of the Withdrawn Project Loan Balance and Withdrawn
Program Loan Balance as at the date of such notice to be due and payable
immediately together with any other Project Loan Payments and Program
Loan Payments due under the Loan Agreement or these General Conditions.
Upon any such declaration, such Withdrawn Project Loan Balance,
Withdrawn Program Loan Balance, Project Loan Payments and Program
Loan Payments shall become immediately due and payable.”

5. Section 9.05. Termination of Legal Agreements on Full Payment, is modified to
read: “The Legal Agreements and all obligations of the parties under the Legal
Agreements shall forthwith terminate upon full payment of the Withdrawn
Project Loan Balance, Withdrawn Program Loan Balance, and all other
Project Loan Payments and Program Loan Payments due.”

-37-
