Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

 

LOAN NUMBER 8311-CN

Loan Agreement

(Guangdong Agricultural Pollution Control Project)
between
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

aa
Dated Feponans >d 2014

 

 
Boe LOAN NUMBER 8311-CN

LOAN AGREEMENT

Agreement dated Hebsewery 23, 2014, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).

WHEREAS:

(A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to provide assistance towards the financing
of the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”), and

(B) by an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the Bank,
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility (GEF)
(“GEF Grant-Agreement”), the Bank has agreed to provide such assistance in an
amount of five million one hundred thousand Dollars ($5,100,000) (“Grant”) to
assist in financing Parts 1 (c), 3 and 4 of the Project.

NOW the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:

1.01.

1.02.

2.01.

2.02.

2.03.

2.04.

ARTICLE I—GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.

Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions.

ARTICLE II—LOAN

The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred million Dollars ($100,000,000), as such
amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in
financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”).

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.

The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to

the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread, provided, that upon a

Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
2.05.

2.06.

2.07.

accordance with the relevant provisions of Article [V of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02
(e) of the General Conditions.

The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

(a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the
interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or
vice versa: or (B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a
Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (ili) the setting of limits on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference
Rate.

(b) Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in the
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.

(c) Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium
payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE INl—PROJECT

The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project Implementing Entity in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and the Project
Agreement.

-2-
3.02. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV — TERMINATION |

4.01. The Effectiveness Deadline is thie date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement.

ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. The Borrower’s representative is its Minister of Finance.
5.02. The Borrower's Address 1s:

Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe

Beijing 100820

People’s Republic of China

Facsimile:
(86-10) 6855-1125

5.03. The Bank’s Address is:

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America

Cable address: Telex: Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 64145(MCI)

-3-
AGREED at Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

By

Authorized Representative

|

Name: Vr ater

\ —

/ <1 Cerna’? ote [ Lepore “ee f-
O1 A ora's tog of Po ne 22.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

Mh Aw

Authorized Representative

Name: 4 leurs Koll

Title: Conutrs bP ¢ Ree fo - LC ne.

~4.
SCHEDULE 1

‘Project Description

The objective of this Project is to reduce water pollutant releases from crop and livestock
production in selected areas of Guangdong Province.

Part 1

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

The Project consists of the following parts:
Environmentally Friendly Crop Production
Soil Nutrient Management

(1) Development and dissemination of sound soil nutrient management plans
through soil nutrient sampling and analysis.

(11) Promotion, through the provision of Subsidies, of use of various technical
measures to improve application and utilization efficiencies of fertilizers based
on soil nutrient management plans including: (A) application of formula
fertilizers, (B) application of slow-release fertilizers; (C) development of
fertigation facilities in vegetable and orchard farms; and (D) adoption of three
control techniques on rice paddies.

Integrated Pest Management dPM)
(i) Upgrading of pest monitoring and early warning systems; and

(ii) promotion of integrated pest management practices for key cropping systems

through the provision of Subsidies for professional pest management services,
and for the acquisition of pesticides and related equipment.

Conservation Agriculture Pilots

Provision of CA Pilot Sub-grants to farmers for the carrying out of CA Pilots to
demonstrate the use of no-till or limited tillage technologies and practices for typical
cropping systems.

Implementation Support to Beneficiaries

(i) - Provision of field technical support to Beneficiaries, in particular smallholders, in
crop production practices promoted by the Project;

(ii) Provision of Sub-grants to eligible Village Committees to finance part of their
incremental operating costs for organizing Beneficiaries in their villages to carry
out Project activities; and

(iii) Provision of Certification Incentive Payments to Beneficiaries to encourage them
to go through the process necessary for their farms to be certified by the DOA as

-5-
Part 2

(a)

(b)

Part 3

(a)

(0)

(c)

safe agricultural product sites or for their products to be certified by the Ministry
of Agriculture as green agricultural products or organic products.

Livestock Waste Management

Provision of LWM Sub-grants to Beneficiaries to partially finance the construction of
livestock waste management facilities to promote the proper collection and treatment of
pig manure.

Provision of output based LWM Sub-grants to Beneficiaries to partially finance the
Incremental Investment Costs incurred in the construction of pilot high-rise pig
production facilities.

Monitoring and Evaluation, Capacity Building and Knowledge Management

Monitoring and evaluation of Project activities, including of monitoring of environmental
and social safeguards, and measuring impacts of various Project activities.

Building the capacity of the Project Implementing Entity and Project stakeholders
through Acquisition of monitoring equipment and vehicles, carrying out of studies, and
provision of study trips and training.

Summarizing and disseminating lessons and experiences derived from Project
implementation.

Part 4 Project Management

Strengthening the institutional capacity of the PMO and the PMUs for the implementation of the
Project, including the provision of Incremental Operating Costs.

-6-
SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Section I. Implementation Arrangements

A.

1.

tw

Financing Arrangements

For the purposes of the Project, the Borrower shall make available the proceeds of the
Loan to the Project Implementing Entity, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank, including the following principal terms:

(a) The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars or any other Currency as
the Loan may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion
(such principal amount determined on the date, or respective dates, of withdrawal
from the Loan Account) of the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn.

(b) The principal amount so made available (including an amount equal to the fee
paid pursuant to Section 2.03 of this Agreement) shall be recovered over a period
of 25 years, inclusive of a grace period of 5 years.

(c) Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest applicable from time to
time to the Loan pursuant to Section 2.04 of this Agreement.

The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to: (a) manage, operate,
monitor, transfer and reconcile the proceeds of the Loan made available to it pursuant
to paragraph 1 above in accordance with arrangements and procedures satisfactory to
the Bank; (b) take all required actions, including provision of timely consents and
approvals as may be necessary, to facilitate the utilization of said Loan proceeds and
the implementation of the Project and to enable the Project Implementing Entity to
comply with its undertakings under the Project Agreement; and (c) maintain all
relevant records and documents related to the Loan and the Project and provide
promptly such documents and records, including all other information, as may be
requested by the Borrower or the Bank from time to time.

Implementation Arrangements and Work Pians

The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to carry out the Project in
accordance with the Project Implementation Manual, and the Annual Work Plans as
annually reviewed and approved by the Bank, as provided for in Section I, Part B of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank and shall not
amend, suspend, or waive the said manual or plan or any part thereof without the prior
written agreement of the Bank.

In the event of any inconsistency between the Project Implementation Plan or the Annual
Work Plan and this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.

-7-
Anti-Corruption

The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.

Safeguards

Without limitation upon its other obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower shall
cause the Project Implementing Entity to carry out the Project, or ensure that the Project
is carried out, in accordance with the provisions of Part D of Section I of the Schedule to
the Project Agreement.

Without limitation upon its other reporting obligations under Section If of this Schedule,
the Borrower shall take, and cause the Project Implementing Entity to take, all measures
necessary to regularly collect and compile, and submit to the Bank, as part of the Project
Reports, information on the status of compliance with the Safeguards Instruments,
providing details of:

(a) measures taken in furtherance of said Instruments;

_ (b) conditions, if any, which interfere or threaten to interfere with the smooth

implementation of said Instruments; and

(c) remedial measures taken or required to be taken to address such conditions.

Section IU. Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

A.

t

Project Reports.

The Borrower shall: (a) monitor and evaluate, and cause the Project Implementing Entity
to monitor and evaluate, the progress of the Project and to prepare Project Reports in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 (b) of the General Conditions and on the
basis of the indicators agreed with the Bank and set forth in the Project Implementation
Manual. Each such Project Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar semester,
and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than March 15 and September 15 each year;
and (b) without limitation upon the provisions of the preceding sub-paragraph, cause the
Project Implementing Entity to, by no later than December 31, 2016 carry out a mid-term
review of the Project, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.

Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits.

The Borrower shall maintain, or shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to maintain,
a financial management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the
General Conditions.

Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall cause
the Project Implementing Entity to prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project
Report not later than March 15 and September 15 each year, interim un-audited financial

-8-
reports for the Project covering the preceding calendar semester, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank.

3, The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to have its Financial
Statements audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General
Conditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) ftscal
year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.

Section I]. Procurement
A. General

I, Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. All goods, works and non-consulting
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section | of the
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.

2. Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and
with the provisions of this Section.

3. Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to
the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the Procurement Guidelines,
or Sections II, II], 'V and V of the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.

B. Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services
, International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2

below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.

to

Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. The
following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used for
procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for those contracts specified in
the Procurement Plan: (a) Shopping; (b) Direct Contracting; (c) Community
Participation procedures which have been found acceptable to the Bank, as set out
in the PIM; and (d) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional provisions
set forth in the box below:

 

a

The procedures applicable to the procurement of goods, works, and non-consulting services under |
contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding (“NCB”) shall be the open
tendering procedures set forth in the Borrower’s Law on Tendering and Bidding promulgated by
its Order No. 2} dated August 30, 1999; provided, however, that such procedures shall be subject

to the provisions of Section 1, Paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of Section Ill, and Appendix 1 of the
-9.
govern.

(i)

(ii)

 

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
    

   

Procurement Guidelines, and the additional provisions in the following. In the event of a conflict
between the Borrower’s procedures and these NCB Procedure Modifications, the latter shall

ae

Eligibility to participate in a procurement process and to be awarded a Bank-financed
contract shall be as defined under Section I of the Procurement Guidelines; accordingly,
no bidder or potential bidder shall be declared ineligible for such contract for reasons
other than those provided in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines. No restriction
based on nationality of bidders and/or origin of goods shail apply, and foreign bidders
shall be allowed to participate in NCB without application of restrictive conditions.

All invitations to prequalify or bid shall be advertised in a national newspaper of wide
circulation in the Borrower’s country, or on a widely used website / electronic portal with
free national and international access acceptable to the Bank except for goods or non-
consulting services contracts that are estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent
each, or works contracts that are estimated to cost less than $2,000,000 each, which may
be advertised in a provincial daily newspaper. Such advertisement shall be made in
sufficient time for prospective bidders to obtain prequalification or bidding documents
and prepare and submit their responses. In any event, a minimum of thirty (30) days shall
be given to bidders between the date of such advertisement (or the date of availability of
bidding documents, whichever is later) and the deadline for the submission of bids, and
the advertisement and bidding documents shall specify the deadline for the submission of
bids. In the case of such advertisement on a website / electronic portal, the notice shall
remain readily accessible nationally and internationally until at least the deadline for the
submission of bids. Potential bidders shall be allowed to inspect and purchase bidding
documents at any time prior to the deadline for the submission of bids.

Standard Bidding Documents acceptable to the Bank shall be used.

Qualification requirements of bidders and the method of evaluating the qualification of
each bidder shall be specified in detail in the bidding documents.

Prequalification procedures and documents acceptable to the Bank shall be used for large,
complex and/or specialized works. Verification of the information upon which a bidder
was prequalified, including current commitments, shall be carried out at the time of
contract award, along with the bidder’s capability with respect to personnel and
equipment. All bidders that meet the qualification criteria set out in the pre-qualification
documents shall be allowed to bid, and there shall be no limit on the number of pre-
qualified bidders. Where pre-qualification is not used, the qualification of the bidder who
is recommended for award of contract shall be assessed by post-qualification, applying
the qualification criteria stated in the bidding documents.

ge

Registration shall not be used to assess bidders’ qualifications. A bidder shall not be
required to register as a condition for inspecting or purchasing bidding documents,
submitting its bid or receiving contract award. A bidder determined to be the lowest
evaluated responsive bidder, shall be given reasonable opportunity of registering (if
required) before contract signing without any let or hindrance. Bidding shall not be
restricted to any particular class of contractors, and non-classified contractors shall also

-}|Q-
8 =

be eligible to bid.

| (vii) No margins of preference of any sort shall be given to bidders, such as on the basis of
their location, place of incorporation, or affinity with the geographical area in which the
Project activities will take place.

(viii) All bidders who are awarded contracts for works and single-responsibility contracts shall
be required to provide performance security in an amount sufficient to protect the
Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity / Entities, as the case may be, in case of
breach of contract by the contractor, and the bidding documents shall specify the required
form and amount of such security and any other potential damages for such breach.

(ix) Bidders shall be allowed to submit bids by mail or in person.

(x) All bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be offered an opportunity to be
present (either in person or through their representatives) at the time of bid opening, but
bidders shall not be required to be present at the bid opening.

monetary terms or expressed in the form of pass/fail requirements.

(xii) | No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price exceeds any cost estimate or
falls outside any margin or bracket of prices or average bids established by the Borrower
or the Project Implementing Entity / Entities, as the case may be. Rejection of all bids or
re-bidding shall not be allowed solely because the number of bids is less than three (3),
and rejection of all bids or rebidding shall not take place without the Bank’s prior written
agreement.

- rh | TR

(xiii) Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated responsive bidder, that is, the
bidder who meets the appropriate standards of capability and resources and whose bid
has been determined: (A) to be substantially responsive to the bidding documents; and
(B) to offer the lowest evaluated cost. The winning bidder shall not be required, as a
condition of award, to undertake responsibilities for work or to assume other obligations
not stipulated in the bidding documents or otherwise to modify the bid as originally

| submitted. No negotiations shall be permitted except with the Bank’s no-objection.

(xiv) In accordance with the Procurement Guidelines, each bidding document and contract
shall include provisions stating the Bank’s policy to sanction firms or individuals found
to have engaged in fraud and corruption as set forth in the Procurement Guidelines.

(xv) In accordance with the Procurement Guidelines, each bidding document and contract
shall include provisions stating the Bank’s policy with respect to inspection and audit of
accounts, records and other documents relating to the submission of bids and contract
| performance.

 

| (xvi) | Government-owned enterprises in the Borrower’s country may be permitted to bid or
submit a proposal of goods, works, or non-consulting services if they can establish that
they: (A) are legally and financially autonomous; (B) operate under commercial law; and

-||-

(xi) All bid evaluation criteria shall be disclosed in the bidding documents and quantified in

{

h
|
|
‘

 
     
 

(xvil)

(xviii)

 

(C) are not a dependent agency of the agency conducting the procurement.

 

Matters such as subcontracting, joint venture relationships and assignment of contract
shall be handled in accordance with the bidding documents.

The results of bid evaluation and contract award shall be published in the national or
provincial press (as provided under paragraph (ii) above) or official gazette or a free and
open-access website and shall identify: (A) the name of each bidder who submitted a bid:
(B) bid prices as read out at bid opening; (C) the name of the bidder, and the evaluated
price, of each bid that was evaluated; (D) the names of bidders whose bids were either
rejected as non-responsive or not meeting qualification criteria, or not evaluated, with the
reasons therefor, and (E) the name of the winning bidder and the final total contract price,
as well as the duration and summary scope of the contract. Such publication shall be
within two (2) weeks of receiving the Bank’s no-objection to the award recommendation
for contracts subject to the Bank’s prior review, and within two (2) weeks of the
Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity’s award decision for contracts subject to the
Bank’s post review. The bidding documents shail disclose the newspaper in which and /
or the electronic means by which the information on contract award will be published.

oR ry

The Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity / Entities, as the case may be, shall

have in place an effective and independent protest mechanism for bidders to protest. The

bidding documents shall provide the professional title and address of the official to whom
such protests should be sent.

 

Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services

 

Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality
and Cost-based Selection.

Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following methods,
other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, may be used for procurement of
consultants’ services for those contracts which are specified in the Procurement Plan: (a)
Quality-based Selection; (b) Selection Based on the Consultants’ Qualifications; (c)
Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for the
Selection of Individual Consultants; and (d) Single-source procedures for the Selection of
firm and Individual Consultants.

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s
Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.

-|2-
Section IV. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

Fe re ee

A. General

l, The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions
of Article Il of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World Bank
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by
the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to
finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.

2. The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible
Expenditures in each Category.

      

  
  

  
 

     
     

  

Category Amount of the Loan Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated to be Financed
a expressed in USD
Ti) Goods and works under 56,720,000 50%
Part 2 (a) of the Project
(2) Sub-financings under Parts 31,800,000 100% of amounts disbursed
1 (a) (ii), 1 (b) (ii) and 2 (b) of |
the Project _— _
(3) Works, goods, non- 11,230,000 100%
consulting services,
consultants’ services,

' Incremental Operating Costs,

Training and Workshops

under Parts 1 (a) (i), 1 (b) (1),

3 and 4 of the Project:

(4) Front-end Fee 250,000 Amount payable pursuant to
Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance with
Section 2.07 (b) of the General
Conditions
Amount due pursuant to
Section 2.07(c) of _ this
Agreement

  
 
 
  
 
   

  
   
       

   

| (5) Interest Rate Cap or
| Interest Rate Collar premium

  

 

TOTAL AMOUNT

100,000,000

B. Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

1. Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made for
payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed $10,000,000 equivalent may be made for payments made
prior to this date but on or after October 29, 2013 for Eligible Expenditures:

-]3-
2. The Closing Date is December 31, 2019.

-14-
SCHEDULE 3

Amortization Schedule

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
_ percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment
Date (“Installment Share”). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b)
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
to which a Currency Conversion applies.

Principal Payment Date ‘Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)

 

 

December 15, 2019 1.52
June 15, 2020 1.56
1.59
June 15, 2021 1.63
December 15, 2021 1.67
June 15, 2022 | 1.72
December 15, 2022 1.76
June 15, 2023 1.8
December 15, 2023 7 1.85
June 15, 2024 1.89
December 15, 2024 194
June 15, 2025 1.99
December 15, 2025 2.04
June 15, 2026 2.09
2.14
fJune 15,2027, i 22
2.25
2.31
2.37
pJune 15,2029 sd 2.43
2.49
(June 15,2030 (5S
2.61
June 15, 2031 2.68
December 15, 2031 2.74
June 15, 2032 2.81
December 15, 2032 2.88
June 15, 2033 2.95

 

-|5-
December 15, 2033 | 3.03

June 15, 2034 I
December 15, 2034 3.18 _
June 15, 2035 3.26

December 15, 2035 3.34

 
     
 

  

June 15, 2036 3.43

December 15, 2036 3.51

June 15, 2037 3.6

December 15, 2037 3.69 _
June 15, 2038 3.78

December 15, 2038 4.14

If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:

(a) To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance
as of such date in accordance with paragraph | of this Schedule.

(b) Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original
Installment Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.

(a) Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.

(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of
such billing system.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs | and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any

-16-
Cn

Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.

If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the

provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.

~|7-
APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

inv

“Annual Work Plans” means the rolling plans for the Project to be prepared or updated
by the Project Implementing Entity on an annual basis as provided for in the Section [,
Part B.2 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”,
dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.

“Beneficiary” means a CA Pilot Beneficiary, a Certification Beneficiary, a Fertigation
Beneficiary, a Subsidy Beneficiary, or an LWM Beneficiary and “Beneficiaries” means,
collectively, all such Beneficiaries.

“CA Pilot’? means an activity carried out or to be carried out under Part | (c) of the
Project in order to demonstrate the use of no-till or limited tillage technologies and
practices for typical cropping systems.

“CA Pilot Beneficiary” means an individual, cooperative or other group that meets the
eligibility criteria set forth in the Project Implementation Manual and who or which has
received or will receive CA Pilot Sub-grant to finance a CA Pilot under Part 1 (c) of the
Project.

“CA Pilot Sub-grant” means a payment made or proposed to be made to a CA Pilot
Beneficiary (as herein defined) out of the proceeds of the Loan to partially finance the
cost of goods, works and services required for carrying out a CA Pilot pursuant to a CA
Pilot Sub-grant Agreement (as hereinafter defined).

“CA Pilot Sub-grant Agreement” means an agreement, referred to in Part E.5 of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement, between the Project Implementing Entity and a CA
Pilot Beneficiary, setting forth the terms and conditions governing a CA Pilot Sub-grant.

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.

“Certification Beneficiary” means an individual, cooperative or other group that meets
the eligibility criteria set forth in the Project Implementation Manual and who or which
has received or will receive an incentive payment under Part 1 (d) of the Project once
their products have been certified by DOA as safe agricultural products or by the
Ministry of Agriculture as green agricultural products to cover part of the costs of such

certification.

“Certification Incentive Payment” means a payment made or to be made to a
Certification Beneficiary under Part 1 (d) (ili) of the Project as a reward for going

-]8-
13.

14,

through process necessary for their products to be certified by DOA as safe agricultural
products or by the Ministry of Agriculture as green agricultural products.

“Consultant Guidelines’ means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers”
dated January 2011.

“Department of Agriculture” and the acronym “DOA” mean the Department of
Agriculture of Guangdong Province and any successor thereto.

“Department of Environmental Protection” and “DEP” mean the Department of
Environmental Protection of Guangdong Province and any successor thereto.

“Department of Finance” and the acronym “DOF” mean the Department of Finance of
Guangdong Province and any successor thereto.

“Displaced Persons” means persons who, on account of implementation of the Project,
have experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts caused by:
(a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of shelter; (ii) loss of
assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources or means of livelihood, whether
or not such persons must move to another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of
access to legally designated parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the
livelihood of such person.

“Environmental Management Plan” means the Project Implementing Entity’s plan.
acceptable to the Bank and publically disclosed in the Borrower’s territory on January 15,
2013 and in the Bank’s InfoShop on February 22, 2013 which analyzes the adverse
environmental impacts of the Project, and sets out: (a) the measures to be taken during
the implementation and operation of the Project to eliminate or offset such adverse
environmental impacts, or to reduce them to acceptable levels; and (b) the actions needed
to implement these measures.

“Fertigation Beneficiary” means an individual, cooperative or other group that meets the
eligibility criteria set forth in the Project Implementation Manual and who or which has
received or will receive a Fertigation Sub-grant under Part 1 (a) (ii) (C) of the Project to
finance the development of fertigation facilities in vegetable and orchard farms.

“Fertigation Sub-grant” means an output based payment made or proposed to be made to
a Fertigation Beneficiary, pursuant to a Fertigation Sub-grant Agreement (as hereinafter
defined), out of the proceeds of the Loan to partially finance the cost of goods, works and
services required for carrying out a Fertigation Sub-project.

“Fertigation Sub-grant Agreement” means an agreement, referred to in Part E.3 of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement, between the Project Implementing Entity and a
Fertigation Beneficiary; setting forth the terms and conditions governing a Fertigation

~ Sub-grant.

-1|9-
21.

21.

25.

29.

“Fertigation Sub-project” means a specific investment activity entailing the development
of fertigation facilities in vegetable and orchard farms under Part 1 (a) (ii) (C) of the
Project which is financed or proposed to be financed through a Fertigation Sub-grant(as
hereinafter defined) in accordance with the criteria set forth in Part E.3 of the Schedule to
the Project Agreement and in further detail in the PIM.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated March 12, 2012.

“Guangdong Province” means the province of Guangdong in the People’s Republic of
China.

“IC Card” means the card, linked to the IC Card System, to be used by each Benefictary
in procuring goods and services under the Project.

“IC Card System” means the computerized system established by the Project
Implementing Entity for storing and validating basic information on Beneficiaries under
Part 1 of the Project, and their eligible Project support in order to facilitate the
procurement by such Beneficiaries of goods and services at a subsidized price from
certified Suppliers and Service Providers.

“Incremental Investment Costs” means the difference between the cost of construction of
single-floor flash farms and cost of construction of the high-rise pig production facilities
described under Part 2 (b) of the Project.

“Incremental Operating Costs” means the reasonable costs incurred by the Project
Implementing Entity, including the PMO and the PMUs, for purposes of Project
management and implementation based on the annual work plans and budgets approved
in advance by the Bank and the Project Implementing Entity as provided for in Section J,
Part B.2 (b) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, on account of office supplies and
consumables, utilities, bank charges, communications, mass media and printing services,
interpretation and translation services, vehicle rental, operation, maintenance, and
insurance, building and equipment maintenance, local transportation, domestic travel,
lodging, and subsistence allowances, and salaries of contractual and temporary staff, but
excluding salaries and any salary supplements of members of the Borrower’s or the

Project Implementing Entity’s civil service.

“T.WM Beneficiary” means an individual, cooperative or other group that meets the
eligibility criteria set forth in the Project Implementation Manual and who or which has
received or will receive LWM Sub-grant.

“TWM _ Sub-grant” means a payment made or proposed to be made to a LWM
Beneficiary, pursuant to a LWM Sub-grant Agreement (as hereinafter defined), out of the
proceeds of the Loan to partially finance the cost of goods, works and services required
for carrying out a LWM Sub-project.

“LWM Sub-grant Agreement” means an agreement, referred to in Part C of the Annex to
the Schedule to the Project Agreement, between the Project Implementing Entity and a

-20-
30.

31.

33.

34.

35.

36.

37.

LWM Sub-project Beneficiary, setting forth the terms and conditions governing a LWM
Sub-grant.

“LWM Sub-project” means a specific investment activity financed or proposed to be
financed through a LWM Sub-grant (as hereinafter defined) in accordance with the
criteria set forth in the Annex to the Schedule to the Project Agreement and in further
detail in the Project Implementation Manual and entailing either: (a) the construction
and/or operation of a livestock waste management facility to promote the proper
collection and treatment of pig manure under Part 2 (a) of the Project, or (b) the
construction of a pilot high-rise pig production facility under Part 2 (b) of the Project.

“Pest Management Plan” means the Project Implementing Entity’s plan acceptable to the
Bank and publically disclosed in the Borrower’s territory on January 15, 2013 and in the
Bank’s InfoShop on February 22, 2013 setting out, among other things, the measures to
promote and support safe, effective, and environmentally sound pest management under
the Project.

“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and
Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers” dated January 2011.

“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, dated
October 25, 2013 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and
paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to
time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.

“Project Counties and Municipalities” means the following jurisdictions in Guangdong
Province: Huiyang District, Huicheng District and Boluo County of Huizhou
Municipality, and Enping City, Kaiping City and Taishan City of Jiangmen Municipality.

“Project Implementation Manual” and “PIM” means the Project Implementing Entity’s
manual dated October 2013 providing, inter alia for: (a) the institutional arrangements for
the implementation of the Project, acceptable to the Bank, including the procedures and
criteria for the appraisal, environmental screening and selection of Livestock Waste
Management Sub-projects, and for the provision of Sub-financings under the Project; (b)
the terms and conditions of Sub-financings, acceptable to the Bank, including maximum
and minimum amounts in accordance with eligible technologies, procurement
arrangements, and remedies for non-compliance with any of the conditions thereof; and
(c) arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, for the flow of funds of the proceeds of the
Loan including financial management, disbursement and procurement arrangements.

“Project Implementing Entity” means Guangdong Province.

“Project Management Office” and “PMO” mean the office to be maintained by the
Project Implementing Entity at the provincial level with overall responsibility for Project
implementation, as provided for in Section I, Part A.1 (a) (iii) of the Schedule to the
Project Agreement. |

-21-
2
oo

40.

4].

42.

43.

44,

“Project Management Unit” and “PMU” mean the office to be maintained by the Project
Implementing Entity in each of the Project Counties and Municipalities, responsible for,
in the case of the Project counties, implementing Part 1 of the Project within its
jurisdiction and, in case of the Project municipalities, assisting the PMO with day-to-day
Project implementation within its jurisdiction, all as provided for in Section I, Part A.1
(b) (iti) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.

“PSC” means the provincial steering committee to be maintained as provided for in
Section I, Part A.1 (b) (i) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, responsible for
providing guidance to PMO in the implementation of the Project.

“Resettlement Action Plan” or “RAP” means a plan prepared or to be prepared pursuant
to Section I, Part D.4 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, which sets forth
principles and procedures governing the acquisition of land and related assets, and the
compensation, resettlement, and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons in accordance with
the guidelines and procedures set forth in the Resettlement Policy Framework, as said
plan may be revised from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank, and
such term includes any annexes or schedules to such plan.

“Resettlement Policy Framework” means the Project Implementing Entity’s policy
framework for compensation, resettlement and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons,
acceptable to the Bank and publically disclosed in the Borrower’s territory on February
22, 2013, setting forth the guidelines, principles and procedures for mitigating any
adverse impact that may arise from resettlement under the Project including detailed
procedures on review of land issues, preparation and approval of potential Jand
acquisition activities, institutional and financial arrangements, and monitoring plans for
resettlement implementation.

“Safeguards Instruments” means the Environmental Management Plan, the Pest
Management Plan, the Resettlement Policy Framework and any Resettlement Action Plan
prepared under the Project. ;

“Service Provider” means an individual, cooperative or other entity that meets the
eligibility criteria set forth in the PIM and who or which has entered into, or will enter
into an agreement with a Village Committee for the provision of services to Beneficiaries
to be partially financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

“Sub-financing” means a CA Pilot Sub-grant, a Certification Incentive Payment, a
Fertigation Sub-grant, a Subsidy, or an LWM Sub-grant, and “Sub-financings” means,
collectively, all such Sub-financings.

“Subsidy” means amount paid or to be paid to a Subsidy Beneficiary (as herein defined)
to meet part of the cost to such Subsidy Beneficiary of: (a) the purchase of fertilizers and
pesticides under Part 1 (a) and (6) of the Project; (b) the procurement of professional pest
management services, and acquisition of pesticides and related equipment under Part |
(b) of the Project; and “Subsidies” means, collectively all such Subsidies.
46.

47.

48.

49.

“Subsidy Beneficiary” means, an individual, cooperative or other group that meets the
eligibility criteria set forth in’ the Project Implementation Manual and who or which has
received or will receive a Subsidy (as herein defined).

“Supplier” means an individual, cooperative or other entity that meets the eligibility
criteria set forth in the PIM and who or which has entered into, or will enter into an
agreement with a Village Committee or a PMU for the provision of goods to
Beneficiaries to be partially financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

“Training and Workshops” means, for the purposes of the table in Schedule 2, Section
IV, Paragraph A.2 of this Agreement, the reasonable cost of travel, lodging and per diem
for trainees attending training, workshops and study tours and the cost of delivering
training including rental of training space and training equipment, fees, and other
logistical costs, all as agreed with the Bank and based on the annual work plans and
budgets approved in advance by the Bank and the Project Implementing Entity as
provided for in Section I, Part B.2 (b) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.

“Village Committee” means the committee established in each of villages in the Project
Counties with the mandate to, among other things, organize farmer participation in
activities under Part 1 of the Project, under the guidance of the relevant PMU. including
communicating extension worker technical advice, and monitoring Beneficiary activities.

-23-
