—aee 5
OFFICIAL |
DOCUMENTS -

CTF LOAN NUMBER TF017646-PH

 

Clean Technology Fund
Loan Agreement

(Cebu Bus Rapid Transit Project)
between
’ REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

acting as an implementing entity of the Clean Technology Fund

D:ited OCTOBER /4 ,2014

' Ee
'

er a A NE rl pg

me rm nD NN A EER ee

. ane ee

 

CTF LOAN NUMBER TF017646-PH
CLEAN TECHNOLOGY FUND LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT dated OCTOBER /¢ , 2014, entered into between
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIP ?INES (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND TC EVELOPMENT (“World Bank”).

WHEREAS (A) the 3orrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and
priority of the project described in Schedule | to this Agreement (“Project”), has
requested the World Bank, ac:ing not in its individual capacity but solely in its capacity
as an implementing entity of the Clean Technology Fund (“CTF”) under the Strategic
Climate Fund (“SCF”), to ex:end a loan in the amount of twenty five million Dollars
($25,000,000) to assist in firancing Parts 1(b), 2(a), 2(c) and 5(a) of the Project as
provided in Section 2.01 of this Agreement; and

(B) the Borrower has also requested the World Bank to extend a loan in the
amount of one hundred sixte2n million Dollars ($116,000,000), to assist in financing
Parts 1(a)(ii), I(a)(iti), 1(a)(i), 1(a)(vi), 1(c), 1(e), 3(a), 4, 5(b) and 6 of the Project,
pursuant to the loan agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the
World Bank (“IBRD Loan Ag ‘eement”);

WHEREAS the Work. Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing,
to extend a loan to the Borro ver, in its capacity as an implementing entity of the CTF
under the SCF, upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;

The Borrower and the World Bank hereby agree as follows:

Article I
Ste ndard Conditions; Definitions

1.01. The Standard Condiions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral j,art of this Agreement.

1.02. Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the n eanings ascribed to them in the Standard Conditioris, in the
IBRD Loan Agreemert or in the Appendix to this Agreement.

Article II
Loan

2.01. The World Bank agre2s to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set
forth or referred to in this Agreement, the amount of twenty five million United
States Dollars ($25,0€0,000) (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described
in Schedule 1 to this /.greement (“Project”).
2.02.

2.03.

2.04.

2.06.

2.07.

2.08.

3.01.

3.02.

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedu'e 2 to this Agreement.

The Loan is funded out of the resources made available to the World Bank as an
implementing entity «f the CTF. In accordance with Section 3.02 of the Standard
Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement), the World Bank’s
payment obligations it connection with this Agreement are limited to the amount of
funds made available to it from the CTF trust fund, and the Borrower’s right to
withdraw the Loan prc ceeds is subject to the availability of such funds.

The Management Fer: payable by the Borrower, pursuant to Section 4.01(b) of
the Standard Conditions, on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance shall be equa! to
eighteen one hundred h of one percent (0.18%) per annum.

The Service Charge »ayable by the Borrower on the Withdrawn Loan Balance
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum.

The Payment Dates a:e May 15 and November 15 in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
repayment schedule s >t forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

The Payment Currency is USD.

Article III
The Project

The Borrower declar:s its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through the Department of
Transportation and Communications (DOTC) in accordance with the provisions
of Article I] of the Stindard Conditions.

Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the World Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
4.01

4.02

5.01.

5.03.

-3-

Article [V
Effectiveness; Termination

The Additional Cond tion of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely the
IBRD Loan Agreem:nt has been executed and delivered and all conditions
precedent to its effect veness or to the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals
under it (other than th: effectiveness of this Agreement) have been fulfilled.

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.

Article V
Borrower’s Representative; Addresses

The Borrower’s Rep-esentative referred to in Section 10.02 of the Standard
Conditions is its Secrctary of Finance.

The Borrower’s Address referred to in Section 10.01 of the Standard Conditions
is:

Department of Finance
Department of Finance Building
Bangko Sentral Complex

Roxas Blvd.

Manila, Philij»pines

Facsimile:

(63-2) 523-92 16

The World Bank’s Address referred to in Section 10.01 of the Standard
Conditions is:

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Stree, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America

Cable: Telex: Facsimile:

INTBAFRAD 248423 (MCI) or 1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 64145 (MCI)
-4-

 

AGREED at Mani a, Republic of the Philippines, as of the day and year
first above written.

REPUBLIC OF PHILIPPINES |

By | f

Authorized Representative
Name: CESAK Vi AUR/SIAZA
Title: SELKETARY/

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
acti 1g as an implementing entity of the

Clein Technology Fund under the Strategic Climate
Fun]

By

Authorized Representative

Name: MOTOO KOns1/SHt/

Title: COUNTRY DIRECTOR, PHILIPPINES
-5-

SCHEDULE 1
Project Description

Schedule 1 of the IBRD Loa Agreement is hereby incorporated by reference and shall
apply, mutatis mutandis, to this Agreement, and the Borrower undertakes to comply with
the provisions thereof to the same extent as if such provisions had been set out in full in

this Agreement.
-6-

SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Section I, II and ITI

Sections I, II and III of the IE;:RD Loan Agreement are hereby incorporated by reference
in this Schedule 2 and shall ay ply, mutatis mutandis, to this Agreement, and the Borrower
undertakes to comply with th: provisions thereof to the same extent as if such provisions
had been set out in full in this Agreement.

Section IV. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

A.

l.

General

The Borrower may v'ithdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II] of the Standard Conditions, this Section and such
additional instruction:: as the World Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the “Worl{i Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the World Bank and as made applicable to
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance one hundred percent
(100%) of Eligible =xpenditures consisting of goods, works, non-consulting
services, consultants’ services, Training and Workshops, and Operating Costs
under Parts 1(b), 2(a). 2(c) and 5(a) of the Project.

For the purposes of this Part A:

(a) the term “(perating Costs” means reasonable, incremental and
documented :xpenditures incurred by DOTC for hiring of contractual
personnel (but excluding staff salaries); and includes travel, per diem,
accommodation, office utilities, materials and supplies, vehicles and
equipment, aid advertising expenses; for purposes of implementing the
Project and vhich expenditures would not have been incurred absent the
Project; and

(b) the term “Training and Workshops” means the reasonable costs of goods
and services required for the participation of personnel involved in
training activities, workshops or study tours under the Project, including
travel and subsistence costs for training, workshop and study tour
participants, costs associated with securing the services of trainers, rental
of training ~nd workshop facilities, preparation and reproduction of
training and workshop materials, and other costs directly related to
training cour:e, workshop or study tour preparation and implementation,
but excluding salaries of consultants.
_7-

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $5,000,000 equivalent may
be made for payment:. made prior to this date but on or after December 31, 2013
for Eligible Expenditi res.

The Closing Date is J ine 30, 2021.
-8-

SCHEDULE 3

Repayment Schedule

Principal Amount of the Loan
repayable
(expressed as a percentage)

 
 
 
 
  

 
   

Date Payrient Due

On each May 15 and Novemberl5, commencing
November 15, 2024 to and including May15, 2034:
9.

APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

l. “Standard Conditions” means the Standard Conditions for Loans Made by the
World Bank Out of the Climate Investment Funds, dated February 18, 2014.
