Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

9, Oe ema “a mae .

| OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS ;

er

 

 

LOAN NUMBER 8381-AZ

Loan Agreement

(Additional Financing for the Second National Water Supply
and Sanitation Project)

between
REPUBLIC OF AZERBAIJAN
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated Cee xe LL 014

 

 
LOAN NUMBER 8381-AZ
LOAN AGREEMENT

Agreement dated (Leber AL , 2014, between the REPUBLIC OF

AZERBAIJAN (“Borrower”) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (‘Bank’) for the purpose of providing
additional financing for activities related to the Original Project (as defined in the
Appendix to this Agreement). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:

1.01.

1.02.

2.01.

2.02.

2.03.

2.04.

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IT — LOAN

The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred and fifty million United
States Dollars ($150,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to
time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section
2.07 of this Agreement (“Loan’’), to assist in financing the project described in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“‘Project’’).

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.

The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.
2.05.

2.06.

2.07.

3.01.

The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

(a)

(b)

(c)

The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.

Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.

Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE Ili — PROJECT

The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project
Implementing Entity in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and the Project Agreement.

-2-
3.02.

4.01.

4.02.

5.01.

5.02.

5.03.

6.01.

Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:

(a) The Project Implementing Entity’s Legislation has been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the ability of the Project Implementing Entity to perform any
of its obligations under the Project Agreement.

(b) The Project Operational Manual shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely, in
the opinion of the Bank, the carrying out of the Project.

The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of namely that any event specified
in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of sixty
(60) days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower.

ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:

(a) The Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower
and the Project Implementing Entity.

(b) The Borrower has submitted to the Bank the Project Operational Manual
in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.

The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely that the
Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and
the Project Implementing Entity and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the
Project Implementing Entity in accordance with its terms.

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.

ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance.
6.02. The Borrower’s Address is:

Ministry of Finance
83 Samed Vurgun Street

Baku AZ1022

Republic of Azerbaijan

Telex: Facsimile:

142116 BNKSL (944-12) 404-47-20

(944-12) 404-47-21
6.03. The Bank’s Address is:

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America

Cable address: Telex: Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 64145(MCI)
AGREED at Baku, Republic of Azerbaijan, as of the day and year first above written.

REPUBLIC OF AZERBAIJAN

By

   

orizad Representative

Name: Sodhie "aay Share
Title: WV T\\ Syer “f way NA (2

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

° _Lbehiuat

Authorized Representative
Name: Lo YV SQ le Sh Clhenky

Title: ‘ce Umar w)\ Avan e¥

_5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description

The objective of the Project is to improve the quality and reliability of water
supply and expand water supply and sanitation services in selected regional (rayon)
centers in Azerbaijan.

The Project consists of Parts A.1, B.1 and C.lof the Original Project modified as
follows:

Part A: Rayon Investment

Rehabilitation and reconstruction of water supply and sewerage systems as well
as water, wastewater and septic sludge treatment facilities in the Selected Rayons.

Part B: Institutional Modernization

Capacity building and modernization of: (a) the Project Implementing Entity and
AZERSU, through the provision of consultants’ services and Training for management,
financial management, customer service, procurement, preventive maintenance and other
subjects pertinent to effective and efficient management of the utilities; (b) AZERSU,
through development of performance monitoring, preventive maintenance and leak
detection and repair; and (c) the Project Implementing Entity, through design and
technical support for construction management, including procurement support and
contract supervision for the investments.

Part C: Project Implementation and Management

Provision of consultants’ services to assist the PIU for the purposes of effective
management and implementation of Project activities.

-6-
SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Section I. Implementation Arrangements

Institutional Arrangements

The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to carry out the
Project in accordance with the Project Operational Manual and shall not amend,
suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive any provision of said Manual without the
prior written approval of the Bank.

The Borrower shall, until the completion of the Project, maintain the PIU within
the Project Implementing Entity and shall ensure that the PIU is adequately
staffed by personnel with qualifications and under terms of reference and
functions at all times in accordance with procedures necessary and appropriate
for the carrying out of the Project, and satisfactory to the Bank.

The Borrower shall ensure that the Project Implementing Entity shall retain,
during the implementation of the Project, the services of a construction
management company satisfactory to the Bank until the Bank’s assessment has
determined that the Project Implementing Entity has the capacity to take over
such a responsibility independently.

Subsidiary Agreement

To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make the proceeds
of the Loan available to the Project Implementing Entity under a subsidiary
agreement between the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity, under
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank (“Subsidiary Agreement’).

The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary
Agreement or any of its provisions.

Anti-Corruption

The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.

-7-
Safeguards

The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to carry out the
Project in accordance with the provisions of the EIAF, site-specific EIAs and
EMPs, RPF and RAP, and shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the EIA,
EMP, RPF and/or RAP or any provision thereof, without prior approval of the
Bank.

Prior to the commencement of works for each proposed site, the Borrower shall
cause the Project Implementing Entity to submit to the Bank evidence
satisfactory to the Bank that: (a) the related site-specific EIA(s) and EMP(s) are
prepared in accordance with the EIAF; (b) the provisions of the site-specific
EIA(s) and EMP(s) are adequately included in the proposed contract(s) for said
works; (c) such works are carried out in accordance with the respective site-
specific EIA(s) and EMP(s); and (d) the owners or users of the land subject to
acquisition due to implementation of said works under the Project, whether on a
permanent or temporary basis, have been fully compensated for any involuntary
loss of shelter, productive assets or access to productive assets, or income or
means of livelihood, all in accordance with the provisions of the respective RAP.

Prior to construction works under Part A of the Project in Jalilabad and Masalli
rayons, the Borrower shall:

(a) cause the Project Implementing Entity to engage an independent dam
expert, acceptable to the Bank, to: (1) inspect and evaluate the safety
status of the Vilashchay Dam in Masalli Rayon, its appurtenances, and
its performance history; (ii) review and evaluate the owner’s operation
and maintenance procedures; and (iii) provide a written report of findings
and recommendations for any remedial work or safety-related measures
required for the Vilashchay Dam; and

(b) cause the Project Implementing Entity to take appropriate measure and to
carry out the Project in accordance with the recommendations set forth in
the report referred to in sub-paragraph (a) above.

Section II. Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

A.

Project Reports

The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the Bank. Each Project
Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester and shall be furnished to
the Bank not later than one month after the end of the period covered by such
report.
A.

l.

Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits

The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained, a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.

The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45)
days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports
for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank.

The Borrower shall have the Project Financial Statements audited in accordance
with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of
the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the
Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of such period.

Section ITI. Procurement

General

Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.

Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.

Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in Sections I and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant
Guidelines, as the case may be.

Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services

International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2. Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding,
may be used for procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for
those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan:

Procurement Method

(a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the following additional provisions:
(1) there shall be no eligibility restrictions based on nationality of bidder;

entities in which the State or a State official owns a shareholding of
whatever size shall not be invited to participate in tenders for the
Government unless they are and can be shown to be legally and
financially autonomous and they operate under commercial law;

no national preferences may be applied on the basis of the origin of
products or labor;

joint venture partners shall be jointly and severally liable for their
obligations;

no “participation fee” shall be required of bidders for the purchase of
bidding documents. The only charge shall be equivalent to the cost of
producing (copying) the bidding documents;

in the evaluation of bids, bids may not be rejected where they differ
substantially from the estimated prices calculated by the procuring entity,
except where the bid prices exceed the available budget;

rebidding shall not be carried out without prior approval of the Bank;

works contracts of more than eighteen (18) months’ duration shall
include appropriate price adjustment provisions;

prior approval of the Bank shall be required for any modification in the
contract scope and conditions during implementation; and

 

standard bidding documents approved by the Bank shall be used.

(c) Direct Contracting

-10-
A.

l.

Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services

Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.

Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for

procurement of consultants’ services for those contracts which are specified in
the Procurement Plan:

(f) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines
for the Selection of Individual Consultants

 
 
   
   
     
       

 
 

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank’s Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.

Section IV. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

General

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.

-l]-
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.

  
  
  
   

 
  
   
   
  

Percentage of

   
   
 

Amount of the Loan Expenditures to be
Allocated financed
Category (expressed in USD) (Net of VAT)

   
   

     
 

(1) Goods, works, non-
consulting services, and
consultants’ services,
Training and
Incremental Operating
Costs for the Project

 
   
     
 

149,625,000
(2) Front-end Fee 375,000

(3) Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar

premium
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

 
  
  

  

Amount payable pursuant
to Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of
the General Conditions

     
   

     
    

Amount due pursuant to
Section 2.07(c) of this
Agreement

 
       
  

       

  
  

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.

The Closing Date is December 31, 2017.

-|2-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date (“Installment Share”). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.

Principal Payment Date Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)

October 15, 2018
April 15, 2019
October 15, 2019
April 15, 2020
October 15, 2020
April 15, 2021
October 15, 2021
April 15, 2022
October 15, 2022
April 15, 2023
October 15, 2023
April 15, 2024
October 15, 2024
April 15, 2025
October 15, 2025
April 15, 2026
October 15, 2026
April 15, 2027
October 15, 2027
April 15, 2028
October 15, 2028
April 15, 2029
October 15, 2029
April 15, 2030

 

-13-
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:

(a) To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph |
of this Schedule.

(b) Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share’’)
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.

(a) Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.

(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs | and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.

-14-
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for

each such amount.

-15-
APPENDIX

Definitions

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants’, dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.

“Azersu” means “Azersu’” Open Joint Stock Company of Republic of Azerbaijan,
established under the Presidential Decree No. 252 on June 11, 2004.

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.

“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers” dated January 2011.

“EIA” means the Borrower’s environmental impact assessment acceptable to the
Bank, prepared for each Selected Rayon under the Original Project in accordance
with the provisions of the EIAF as updated on March 3, 2014 for the purposes of
this Additional Financing, and consisting of inter alia: (i) a description of the site
where construction activities are to be carried out under the Project and the
justification for said activities; (ii) the actual or potential environmental and/or
social impact of the construction activities referred to under sub-paragraph (i)
above; and (iii) an environmental management plan setting forth adequate
mitigating measures and systems required to monitor the implementation of the
construction activities referred to under sub-paragraph (i) above and to ensure
compliance of such activities with said measures with a view to limiting any
actual and potential adverse environmental and/or social impact.

“EIAFP” means the Environmental Impact Assessment Framework, dated January
4, 2008, prepared for the Original Project and satisfactory to the Bank, setting
forth the framework of environmental assessment to be carried out for each
Project site in order to mitigate any adverse impact to the environment.

“RMP” means the Borrower’s site-specific environmental management plan(s)
acceptable to the Bank, prepared for each site under the Original Project as
updated on March 3, 2014 for the purposes of this Additional Financing, and
included in the EIA describing the environmental and social mitigation,
monitoring and_ institutional measures to be undertaken during the
implementation of the Project, and satisfactory to the Bank.

-16-
10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated March 12, 2012.

“Incremental Operating Costs” means reasonable and necessary incremental
expenses incurred by the Borrower with respect to Project implementation,
management and monitoring, including the costs of support staff salaries
(excluding salaries of the Borrower’s civil service staff), communication, editing,
printing and publication, translation, vehicle operation and maintenance, bank
charges, local travel costs and field trip expenses, office rentals, utilities and
supplies.

“Original Loan Agreement and Financing Agreement” means the Agreement
Providing for Amendment and Restatement of the Loan and Financing
Agreements for the Second National Water Supply and Sanitation Project, dated
October 16, 2009 between the Republic of Azerbaijan (the “Borrower” or the
“Recipient”) and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
(the “Bank’’) and International Development Association (the “Association’’)
(Loan No. 7518-AZ and Credit No. 4397-AZ), as amended to date.

“Original Project” means the Project described in the Original Loan Agreement
and Original Financing Agreement.

“PIU” means the Project Implementation Unit established within the Project
Implementing Entity responsible for the implementation of the Project.

“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers” dated January 2011.

“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project,
dated April 14, 2014 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.

“Project Implementing Entity’s Legislation” means its Charter, which was
approved by the Decree No. 149 of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Borrower,
dated June 17, 2006, as amended to dated.

“Project Implementing Entity” means the Azerbaijan Amelioration and Water
Management Open Joint Stock Company, established under the Presidential
Decree No.372 on February 23, 2006.

“Project Operational Manual” means the manual satisfactory to the Bank, to be

adopted pursuant to Section 5.01 (b) of this Agreement, setting forth the
operational, maintenance and administrative procedures for the implementation

-17-
18.

20.

21.

22.

23.

of the Project, as the same may be amended from time to time by agreement
between the Bank and the Borrower.

“Resettlement Action Plan” or “RAP” means a resettlement action plan,
satisfactory to the Bank, to be prepared and implemented by the Project
Implementing Entity for carrying out activities under the Project in accordance
with the Resettlement Policy Framework (as hereinafter defined), to set out, inter
alia, the principles and objectives, the affected persons’ eligibility criteria,
compensation, assistance and rehabilitation entitlements, as well as_ the
monitoring and reporting arrangements in conformity with the Resettlement
Policy Framework (as hereinafter defined).

“Resettlement Policy Framework” means the Project Implementing Entity’s
framework, dated February 28, 2008, satisfactory to the Bank, for the carrying
out of land acquisition activities under the Project, which Framework sets out the
procedures to be followed in the carrying out of said activities as such
Framework may be amended from time to time with the prior approval of the
Bank.

“Selected Rayons” means rayons of Siyazan, Shabran, Aghsu, Ismayilli, Masalli,
Jalilabad, Yardimli, and Lerik, subject to modifications as the Borrower and the
Bank may agree upon from time to time.

“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.B of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make the
proceeds of the Loan available to the Project Implementing Entity.

“Training” means expenditures incurred by the Borrower in connection with
carrying out training activities under the Project, including travel costs and per
diem for local trainees, workshops, conferences, rental of facilities and
equipment and training materials and related supplies.

“VAT” means the value-added tax, levied in accordance with the legislation of
the Borrower.

-18-
