Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

 

»
aN

——
LOAN NUMBER 8455-CO

Loan Agreement

(Second Programmatic Productive and Sustainable Cities
Development Policy Loan)

between
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

a
D:ited december /$ ,2014
LOAN AGREEMENT

Agreement dated Qecem s 2014, entered into between REPUBLIC OF
COLOMBIA (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of
the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Bank has decided to
provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions which the Borrower has
already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and (b) the Borrower’s maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic
policy framework. The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01. The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

1.02. Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.

ARTICLE If — LOAN

2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of seven hundred million Dollars
($700,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this
Agreement (“Loan”).

2.02. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program
in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

2.03. The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%), of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee
not later than sixty days after the Effective Date.

2.04 The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter
of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.

2.05. The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
2.06.

2.07.

2.08.

2.09.

=

4

payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.

The Payment Dates a’e June 15 and December 15 in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

(a)

(b)

The Borrowe: may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(1) a change »f the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of th: Loan, withdrawn to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change
of the intere;t rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the
principal amc unt of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable
Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all or any portion of the
principal amc unt of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable
Rate based on a Reference Rate and the Variable Spread to a Variable
Rate based 01 a Fixed Reference Rate and the Variable Spread, or vice
versa; or (C° all of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding ‘rom a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a
Variable Rat: based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on
the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion
of the princijal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the
establishmen of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
Variable Rat« or the Reference Rate.

Any convers:on requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined
in the Generiil Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.

Without limitation uron the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions
(renumbered as such )ursuant to paragraph 5 of Section II of the Appendix to this
Agreement and relating to Cooperation and Consultation), the Borrower shall
promptly furnish to tie Bank such information relating to the provisions of this
Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request.
3.01.

4.01.

5.01.

5.02.

6.01.

ARTICLE 0 — PROGRAM

The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.
To this end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions:

(a) the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of
either party, exchange views on the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy
framework and the progress achieved in carrying out the Program;

(b) prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request; and

(c) without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
Section, the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation
that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the
Program or any action taken under the Program, including any action
specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK

The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that a
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a
significant part of it, will be carried out.

ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that
the Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out
the Program and with the adequacy of the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy
framework.

Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan
which expire on June 10, 2016.

ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Finance and Public Credit.
6.02.

6.03.

The Borrower’s Address is:

Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
Carrera 8 No. 6 C 38 Bogota D.C Piso 3°
E-Mail: Desmin@minhacienda.gov.co
Facsimile: (571) 350 9344

The Bank’s Address is:
International Bank fo- Reconstruction and Development

1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20-433

United States of America

Cable address: Telex: Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 64145(MCI)
¢
AGREED at Bogota Colombia , as of the day and year first above

written.

REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA

f
By Wy, HY Nin Jn ob |
Authorized Representative
Name: MOUNICIO Candencas Qntaman A

Title: uinister +iniance avd
UlAC Ched

    
 
 
 

ao

Mb

Authorized Representative

By

   
  

 

Namé: Simon Gavieia Mono?

Title: Goneal Directoy National ¢ lannino
Depatimnrent-

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By st

Authorized Representative

Name: JSSAM ACouUSteiHAS

Title: —~£ rt OE
SCHEDULE 1

Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds

Section I. Actions Tak2n Under the Program.

The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following:

l.

The Borrower, throug, sh CONPES, approved the National Policy to Strengthen the
System of Cities in Colombia (Politica Nacional para Consolidar el Sistema de
Ciudades en Colombia), which sets forth an action plan for strengthening, inter
alia, the governance financial management, physical and digital connectivity,
and economic development of cities located in the Borrower’s territory, as
evidenced by the Bor -ower’s CONPES document No. 3819 of October 21, 2014.

The Borrower, throus;h MT, has issued a regulation allowing its municipalities or
districts with a population above 300,000 people to establish charges to motorists
in connection with the use of urban areas with, inter alia, high traffic congestion
and pollution in order to improve public transit, as evidenced by the Borrower’s
Decree No. 2883 0: December 11, 2013, duly published in the Borrower’s
Official Gazette on Cecember 11, 2013.

The Borrower, throigh MT, has adopted a national technical standard for
Electronic Vehicular Identification Systems (Proyectos de Recaudo Electronico
Vehicular), aimed at collecting data to identify ground transportation vehicles
through radiofrequercy systems, as evidenced by the Borrower’s Decree No.
2846 of December 6, 2013, duly published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on
December 6, 2013.

The Borrower, throuzh the MVCT, has adopted a standardized methodology to
be used by its municipalities and districts to select, collect and consolidate, in a
national inventory, iiformation relating to human settlements located in areas
prone to landslides and floods, as evidenced by the Borrower’s Resolution No.
448 of July 17, 2014, duly published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on July
22, 2014.

The Borrower, throuzh MVCT, has established the principles of regulation for
the carrying out of tl.e Priority Interest Housing Program for Savers (Programa
de Vivienda de Interés Prioritario para Ahorradores), which is aimed at
providing different :ypes of subsidies to selected families to facilitate the
purchase of a house, as evidenced by the Borrower’s Decree No. 1432 of July 5,
2013, duly published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on July 5, 2013.

-6-
The Borrower has adopted a legal framework establishing integrated political,
administrative and fiscal regulations for the management of its metropolitan
areas, as evidenced by the Borrower’s Law No. 1625 of April 29, 2013, duly
published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on April 29, 2013.

The Borrower, through MT, has created the Transport Infrastructure Planning
Unit (Unidad de la Planeacion de la Infraestructura de Transporte) and the
Infrastructure and Transport Regulatory Commission (Comision de Regulacion
de Infraestructura y Transporte), to strengthen the Borrower’s planning and
regulatory capabilities in the transport sector, as evidenced, respectively, by the
Borrower’s Decrees No. 946 and 947 of May 21 2014, both duly published in the
Borrower’s Official Gazette on May 21, 2014.

The Borrower, through CONPES, has approved guidelines to develop a program
to regulate its fourth generation of road concessions, which program is aimed at
improving the existing national road network, as evidenced by the Borrower’s
CONPES document No. 3760 of August 20, 2013.

Section II. Availability of Loan Proceeds

A.

General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank
may specify by notice to the Borrower.

Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan is allocated in a single withdrawal
tranche, from which the Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds.
The allocation of the amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below:

Amount of the Loan
Allocated

Allocations (expressed in Dollars)

(1) Single Withdrawal Tranche 700,000,000
TOTAL AMOUNT 700,000,000

 

Payment of Front-end Fee. No withdrawal shall be made from the Loan
Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end Fee.

Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions.

l. No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless
the Bank is satisfied: (a) with the Program being carried out by the
Borrower; and (b) with the adequacy of the Borrower’s macroeconomic
policy framework.

_7-
Deposits of Loan Ariounts. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:

l. all withdraw:ils from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank
into an accotnt designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank;
and

2. the Borrowe: shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the

Loan into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the
Borrower’s tudget management system, in a manner acceptable to the
Bank.

Excluded Expenditires. The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the
Loan shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines
at any time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an
Excluded Expenditur2, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank,
refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts
refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled.

Closing Date. The Closing Date is December 31, 2015.
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule

The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in full on June 15,
2032.
APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

1.

“CONPES” means Vonsejo Nacional de Politica Economica y Social, the
Borrower’s National Souncil for Economic and Social Policy.

“Excluded Expenditu-e” means any expenditure:

(a)

(b)

 

for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the
Association | as financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the
Association | as financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit,
or grant;

for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the
Borrower:

Description of Item
Alcoholic beverages
Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco
refuse
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or
not containing tobacco substitutes
Radioactive and associated materials
Pearls, precious and semiprecious
stones, unworked or worked
718.7 Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof;
fuel elements (cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear reactors
728.43 Tobacco processing machine
897.3 Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum
group metals (except watches and
watch cases) and goldsmiths’ or
silversmiths’ wares (including set
gems)
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold
ores and concentrates)

TS
Cd

-10-

 
(c) for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
consumption;

(d) for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international
agreements to which the Borrower is a party);

(e) on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the
United Nations; and

(f) with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent,
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the
Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower
(or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action
satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.

“MT” means Ministerio de Transporte, the Borrower’s Ministry of Transport.

“MVCT” means Ministerio de Vivienda, Ciudad y Territorio, the Borrower’s
Ministry of Housing, Cities and Land.

“Official Gazette” means the Borrower’s Diario Oficial.

“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to
support the strengthening of the Borrower’s policy framework on productive,
sustainable and inclusive cities set forth or referred to in the letter dated
November 4, 2014, from the Borrower to the Bank, declaring the Borrower’s
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the
Bank in support of the Program during its execution.

“Single Withdrawal Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the

category entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of
Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

-ll-
Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions

The General Conditions are h2reby modified as follows:

l.

In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs
below.

The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
Withdrawal) is delete J in its entirety.

Sections 2.04 (Desigz:ated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered
accordingly.

Section 3.01. (Froitt-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
“Section 3.01. Fron'-end Fee; Commitment Charge

(a) The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at
the rate specified in tlie Loan Agreement (the “Front-end Fee”).

(b) The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan -3alance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the
“Commitment Charg::”). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty
days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective dates on which
amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan Account or cancelled.
The Commitment Ciarge shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each
Payment Date.”

Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management;
Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the subsequent
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly.

Paragraph (a) of Sect on 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 above
and relating to Use oj Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.

-|2-
10.

Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5
above) is modified to read as follows:

“Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records

; (c) The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Loan until
two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower shall enable the Bank’s

representatives to examine such records.”

Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5
above) is modified to read as follows:

“Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation

(c) The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of
the Program, the performance by the Loan Parties and the Bank of their
respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Loan.”

In the Appendix, Definitions, all references to Section numbers and paragraphs
are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modifications set forth above.

The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of “Commitment Charge”, and renumbering the remaining paragraphs
accordingly:

“19. “Commitment Charge” means the commitment charge specified in the
Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b).”

-13-
