Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

OFFICIAL |
DOCUMENTS ;

ee te

 

 

LOAN NUMBER 8438-ID

Loan Agreement

(Additional Financing for the Local Government and Decentralization Project /
Local Government and Decentralization Project Phase IT)

between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION

AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated fYovempern 27 , 2014
2 of 33 LN 8438-ID

LOAN NUMBER 8438-ID
LOAN AGREEMENT

Agreement dated wovempen 27 , 2014, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (‘Bank’) for the purpose of providing additional financing for activities
related to the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Borrower
and the Bank hereby agree as follows:

1.01.

1.02.

2.01.

2.02.

2.03.

2.04.

2.05.

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.

Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions.

ARTICLE II — LOAN

The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of five hundred million United States Dollars
(US$ 500,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement (“Project”).

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not
later than 60 days after the Effective Date.

The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to
the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall
be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General
Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan
Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of
thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as
provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General Conditions.

The Payment Dates are June | and December | in each year.
2.06.

2.07.

3.01.

3.02.

3 of 33 LN 8438-ID

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

(a)

(b)

The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change
of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the
interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount
of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate,
or vice versa; or (B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate
and the Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate
and the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of
limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable
Rate or the Reference Rate.

Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 1s
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in the
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.

ARTICLE III — PROJECT

The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall carry out the Project, through the Ministry of Finance, as the executing
agency, in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, and
BPKP shall carry out the Verification and Reimbursement Procedures in accordance
with the VO Terms of Reference, the Verification Arrangement.

Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement and except as
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
4.01.

4.02.

5.01.

5.02.

6.01.

6.02.

4 of 33 LN 8438-ID

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK

The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: (a) any of the DAK
Implementing Regulations have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the implementation of the Project; or
(b) BPKP at any time shall have ceased to perform the function of the VO in
accordance with the VO Terms of Reference or shall have failed to perform its
obligations under the Verification Arrangement, without the Borrower having put in
place replacement arrangements for verification satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Bank; or (c) the TA Funds shall not have been made available in accordance with
Section LC of Schedule 2 to this Agreement in any Fiscal Year of Project
implementation.

The Additional Events of Acceleration consist of the following: (a) the event specified
in Section 4.01(a) of this Agreement occurs; or (b) the event specified in (b) or (c) of
Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of 60 days after
notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower.

ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: (1) MPW shall
have issued a Ministerial Circular Letter requiring the use of the Supplemental
Technical Guidelines (Environmental and Social Safeguards) acceptable to the
Borrower and the Bank to all Selected Local Governments; and (11) the VO Terms of
Reference have been agreed between the Borrower and BPKP, and between the Bank
and BPKP, and BPKP and the Bank shall have entered into the Verification
Arrangement.

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance.
The Borrower’s Address 1s:
Ministry of Finance
Directorate General of Debt Management

Gedung Frans Seda
Jl. DR. Wahidin Raya No. |

Jakarta 10710

Indonesia

Cable: Facsimile:
FINMINISTRY 45799 62-21-381-2859

Jakarta
5 of 33 LN 8438-ID

6.03. The Bank’s Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America

Cable address: Telex: Facsimile:

INTBAFRAD 248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 64145(MCI)

AGREED at Jakarta, Republic of Indonesia, as of the day and year first above written.

REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

a” 7 .

Authorized Representative

By

Name: Robert Pakpahan

 

Director General of
Title: Debt Management

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

The

Authorized Representative

  

By

Name: Yos€PHive SASsiwetre

Title: %¢Tlme cCouwrry Director
central

6 of 33 LN 8438-ID

SCHEDULE 1
Project Description

The objective of the Project is to improve the accountability and reporting of the
government’s Specific Purpose Grants (DAK) for basic infrastructure, consisting of

roads, irrigation, water and sanitation, within Selected Local Governments.

Part I:

Part 2:

2.1.

2.2.

2.3.

2.3.1.

The Project consists of the Original Project as modified below:
DAK Reimbursement

Reimbursing the Borrower for Outputs produced by Sub-projects undertaken by
Selected Local Governments financed by annual DAK Transfers and annual LG
Contributions for basic infrastructure sectors, consisting of roads, irrigation, water and
sanitation.

Institutional Support Program
Policy Advisory

Providing technical assistance and policy advice, and carrying out capacity building
activities for the Ministry of Finance’s Directorate General of Fiscal Balance to reform
intergovernmental transfers and improve local government service delivery, including,
inter alia, the design of output and performance-based transfers, the development of a
system linking service standards to government transfers, and the strengthening of the
Borrower’s monitoring and evaluation framework for intergovernmental transfers.

Strengthening Local Government Capacity to Improve Public Service Delivery

Carrying out capacity building activities to (i) improve DAK utilization by Selected
Local Governments by, inter alia, providing support to Selected Local Governments to
strengthen their capabilities in areas such as regional financial management,
procurement, investment planning and maintenance, technical quality control,
safeguards management and reporting and accountability; and (ii) improve local public
service delivery.

Strengthening Central Government Capacity for Effective and Efficient Use of
DAK

Providing implementation support on the day-to-day management of the Project
including in areas such as reporting, monitoring and evaluation of Project progress,
information dissemination to Local Governments, implementation of the DAK web-
based reporting system, updating and expansion of reference unit costs, social and
environmental safeguards, and development and updating of training materials for
Local Governments.
2.3.2.

Part 3:

7 of 33 LN 8438-ID

Providing technical assistance for verification support by, inter alia: (1) improving the
capacity of the Verifier of Outputs to conduct technical audits, and verify safeguards
and Local Government procurement process, and strengthening internal controls in
Local Governments.

Providing technical assistance for monitoring and evaluation support by, inter alia,
strengthening the system for monitoring and evaluation of reports on DAK utilization
submitted through the DAK web-based reporting system, and carrying out mid-term
and end-of-Project evaluations.

Verification of Outputs.

Conducting, through BPKP, the Verification of Outputs, which includes technical
(engineering), procurement, financial management and environmental and social
safeguards and providing technical assistance for BPKP to strengthen its capacity to
conduct said Verification of Outputs.
(b)

(c)

2. MOF

8 of 33 LN 8438-ID

SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Section I. Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional Arrangements
l. The Borrower shall:
(a) establish and maintain until completion of the Project, a steering committee

comprising representatives of MOF, MPW, BAPPENAS and MOHA, said
steering committee to provide general guidance on Project implementation to
the PIU;

establish and maintain, until completion of the Project, a PIU responsible for
the overall management and monitoring of the Project; and

establish and maintain, until completion of the Project, a PIU Management
Committee which will: (i) be led by the Head of PIU and formed by
representatives from the Directorate General of Fiscal Balance of MOF,
BAPPENAS, MOHA and MPW,;; (ii) meet on a semi-annual basis, or more as
needed, to review progress in the implementation of the Project and to make
decisions on key issues of Project implementation; (ili) strive to reach decision
by consensus and, in the event of lack of consensus, follow the decisions made
by the Head of PIU; and (iv) through the Head of PIU, issue minutes of the PIU
Management Committee meetings and aggregate all Project reporting and
monitoring reports due to the Bank under this Agreement.

The Borrower, through MOF, shall

(a)
(b)

(c)
(d)

issue a decree setting forth the internal rules for the functioning of the PIU;

establish a PIU team in MOF’s Directorate General of Fiscal Balance with
qualified staff in adequate numbers and supported by experts in procurement,
financial management, technical, social and environmental management,
monitoring, evaluation, institutional capacity building and related capacities, in
each case with experience and qualifications acceptable to the Borrower and
Bank;

lead overall Project management as the Head of PIU;

lead the preparation of semi-annual Project reports, coordinating with all PIU
members;
9 of 33 LN 8438-ID

(e) lead the preparation of the mid-term Project evaluation report and the end-of-
Project evaluation report, coordinating with all PIU members, and including
information on the compliance with the covenants of this Agreement and
measurement of the Performance Indicators;

(f) conduct an annual review of the Verification of Outputs report, including the
financial (advance payment, reimbursement and incentive) and qualitative

aspects,

(g) prepare and submit reimbursement requests to the Bank following the
Verification and Reimbursement Procedures;

(h) allocate budget within MOF for Project management and capacity building
under Part 2 of the Project;

(1) carry out the procurement activities under Part 2 of the Project;

(j) lead the continued development and operationalization of the Web-Based
Reporting System, in coordination with BAPPENAS, MOHA and MPW,

(k) facilitate, in coordination with MoHA and MPW, the provision of technical
assistance to Selected Local Governments in areas of: (i) regional financial
management; (ii) procurement; (iii) investment planning and maintenance; (iv)
technical quality control; (v) safeguards management; and (vi) reporting and
accountability;

(1) enable the provision of technical support and capacity enhancement to BPKP
on the verification process;

(m) conduct policy analysis in areas related to DAK and intergovernmental
transfers; and

(n) lead efforts to provide outreach to Selected Local Governments in coordination
with MOHA.

MPW
The Borrower, through the Ministry of Public Works, shall:

(a) participate actively in the PIU Steering Committee and the PIU Management
Committee;

(b) dedicate staff to participate in the PIU;
(c) support overall Project management as a member of the PIU;
(d) support the preparation of the semi-annual Project report, mid-term Project

evaluation report and the end-of-Project evaluation report with relevant
technical review and inputs;
10 of 33 LN 8438-ID

(e) support MoF in the annual review of the Verification of Outputs report on the
qualitative aspects;

(f) update and issue the Reference Unit Costs on annual basis;

(g) draft and issue, as relevant, the Ministerial Circular Letter for the Supplemental
Guidelines (Environmental and Social Safeguards);

(h) socialize the Supplemental Guidelines (Environmental and Social Safeguards),

(1) support the continued development and operationalization with Selected Local
Governments of the Web-Based Reporting System; and

(j) support MoF in the provision of technical assistance to Selected Local
Governments in the areas of: (i) investment planning and maintenance; (11)
technical quality control; (iii) safeguards management; and (iv) reporting and
accountability.

MOHA

The Borrower, through the Ministry of Home Affairs, shall:

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

(f)

(g)

(h)

participate actively in the PIU Steering Committee and the PIU Management
Committee;

dedicate staff to participate in the PIU;

support overall Project management as a member of the PIU;

support the preparation of the semi-annual Project report, mid-term Project
evaluation report and the end-of-Project evaluation report with relevant reviews

and inputs;

support MoF in the annual review of the Verification of Outputs report on the
qualitative aspects;

support efforts to provide outreach to Selected Local Governments on all
aspects of Project implementation in coordination with MOF;

support the continued development and operationalization with Selected Local
Governments of the Web-Based Reporting System; and

support the provision of technical assistance to Selected Local Governments in
areas of: (i) regional financial management;; and (ii) reporting and
accountability.
11 of 33 LN 8438-ID

BAPPENAS
The Borrower, through BAPPENAS, shall:

(a) participate actively in the PIU Steering Committee and in the PIU Management
Committee;

(b) dedicate staff to participate in the PIU;

(c) support overall Project management as a member of the PIU;
(d) support the preparation of the semi-annual Project reports;
(e) support the design, implementation and analysis associated with the mid-term

Project evaluation report and the end-of-Project evaluation report;

(f) contribute to and support policy analysis in areas related to DAK and
intergovernmental transfers; and

(g) support the continued development and operationalization with Selected Local
Governments of the Web-Based Reporting System.

BPKP

(a) The Borrower shall maintain, until completion of the Project, an arrangement
with BPKP pursuant to which MOF has requested and BPKP has agreed to
undertake Verification of Outputs for the Project in accordance with the VO
Terms of Reference, which shall include the Verification and Reimbursement
Procedures set out in paragraph 5 of Section 1.B of this Schedule 2.

(b) BPKP and the Bank shall enter into the Verification Arrangement pursuant to
which BPKP shall undertake, until the completion of the Project, Verification
of Outputs for the Project in accordance with the VO Terms of Reference,
including the Verification and Reimbursement Procedures set out in paragraph
5 of Section I.B of this Schedule 2.

(c) The following institutional arrangements at BPKP are conditions for the Bank
to provide any Advance Payment or Reimbursement to the Borrower under the
Project. BPKP shall at all times during Project implementation, maintain
adequate staffing arrangements (including in technical, procurement, financial
management and environmental and social safeguards capacity) with qualified
personnel, technical assistance consultants and/or arrangements with personnel
of MPW or other agencies of the Borrower in order to accomplish the
Verification of Outputs in accordance with the VO Terms of Reference.
12 of 33 LN 8438-ID

7. Local Governments. The Borrower, through the PIU, shall ensure that each Local
Government shall submit a Commitment Letter to the PIU, satisfactory to the Bank, as
a condition for such Local Government to participate in the Project as a Selected Local
Government. No Advance Payment or Reimbursement may be made with respect to
any Local Government which has not entered into a Commitment Letter. Each
Commitment Letter shall set out, inter alia:

(a)

(b)

the Selected Local Government’s obligations to: (i) deliver the Outputs in
accordance with the financial and technical conditions and the standards for
budgeting, planning, procurement, contract management and financial
management set out in the Technical Guidelines; (ii) comply with
environmental and social safeguards technical and reporting requirements set
out in the Technical Guidelines and the Supplemental Technical Guidelines
(Environmental and Social Safeguards); (iii) comply with the Anti-Corruption
Guidelines applicable to recipients of Loan proceeds other than the Borrower
and the Anti-Corruption Action Plan; (iv) monitor outputs, indicators, and
prepare and submit financial reports to MOF and technical reports to MPW on
quarterly and annual basis as specified in the DAK Implementing Regulations
and Technical Guidelines, respectively; (v) enable the required audits and the
Verification of the Outputs and performance conditions by BPKP; (vi) provide
the LG Contribution; and (vii) enable the Borrower and the Bank to review the
documents related to the Sub-projects and enter the sites to review the
implementation of the Sub-projects; and

the provision that in the event that any Sub-project is not implemented in
accordance with the Technical Guidelines and the Supplemental Technical
Guidelines (Environment and Social Safeguards), then Outputs from such Sub-
project shall not be eligible for Advance Payment or Reimbursement.

B. Implementation Arrangements for Reimbursement

1. Project Operations Manual. The Borrower, through the PIU, shall:

(a)

ensure that the Project is implemented in accordance with, an Operations
Manual, acceptable to the Bank, which shall include: (1) the Technical
Guidelines and the Supplemental Technical Guidelines (Environment and
Social Safeguards) and safeguards compliance indicators form; (1i) restriction
on any Sub-project contract with value of more than $2,000,000 equivalent,
(iii) the Reference Unit Costs; (iv) the Eligibility Criteria for Outputs; (v) the
VO Terms of Reference; (vi) the Verification and Reimbursement Procedures,
including the method of Sample (which, except as may be otherwise agreed in
writing between the Borrower and the Bank, will include every Selected Local
Government and 20% of total contracts per Selected Local Government),
determination of Qualifying Percentage and calculation of Advance Payment
and Reimbursement; (vii) the form of and requirements for Verification
Reports; (viii) the Borrower’s current annual DAK Transfer schedule; (ix) the
form of Commitment Letter and a copy of each Commitment Letter after
signature by MOF and the respective Selected Local Government, (x) the Anti-
Corruption Guidelines and the Anti-Corruption Action Plan; (xi) the
13 of 33 LN 8438-ID

procurement procedures set forth in Section III of this Schedule 2 (including
the competitive procurement methods for contracts of goods, works and
services referred in Section III.B.1 of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement and
the community participation procedures for contracts for goods under
sanitation Subprojects referred in Section III.B.2 of Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement); (xii) reporting requirements, financial management procedures
and audit procedures as set forth in Section II of this Schedule 2; (xiii) the
Performance Indicators agreed between the Borrower and the Bank; and (xiv)
the other implementation obligations set forth in this Schedule 2;

(b) update the Operations Manual in a manner acceptable to the Borrower and the
Bank, by not later than 30 days after the Effective Date and thereafter ensure
that the Project is implemented in accordance with said Operations Manual, as
updated pursuant to this paragraph (b); and

(c) not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive any provisions of the Operations
Manual without the prior written agreement of the Borrower and the Bank.

Sub-project Technical Guidelines. The Borrower, through the PIU and MPW, shall
ensure that each Sub-project shall, at all times during Project implementation, be
implemented by a Selected Local Government in accordance with the planning,
budgeting, engineering, procurement, financial management and social and
environmental safeguards requirements as set out in the Technical Guidelines and the
Supplemental Technical Guidelines (Environment and Social Safeguards). In the
event that any Sub-project is not implemented in accordance with the Technical
Guidelines and the Supplemental Technical Guidelines (Environment and Social
Safeguards), then Outputs from such Sub-project shall not be eligible for Advance
Payment or Reimbursement.

Reference Unit Costs for Outputs Produced by Sub-projects. MPW shall provide
to the Bank and BPKP a list of Reference Unit Costs for Outputs produced by Sub-
projects acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank for each Fiscal Year of Project
implementation by no later than February 15 of such Fiscal Year, starting with
February 15, 2015. In the event that the Bank does not receive such acceptable list of
Reference Unit Costs by February 15 of any Fiscal Year, then no Outputs from that
Fiscal Year shall be eligible for Advance Payment or Reimbursement.

Eligibility Criteria for Reimbursement of Outputs. Outputs shall consist of
measurable results produced by roads, irrigation, water and sanitation Sub-projects
undertaken by Selected Local Governments and financed by DAK Transfers and LG
Contribution. The requirements for Outputs financed by DAK and LG Contribution to
be eligible for Advance Payment or Reimbursement in any Fiscal Year shall be
included in the Operations Manual and shall at all times during Project implementation
include the following, except as may be otherwise agreed in writing between the
Borrower and the Bank.

(a) The physical realization of Outputs is evidenced by construction completion
certificates and compliance with technical specifications as set out in the
Technical Guidelines.
(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

(f)

(g)

14 of 33 LN 8438-ID

The Sub-projects which produced the Outputs have been procured in
compliance with the procurement provisions set out in Section III.B of this
Schedule 2.

The Sub-projects which produced the Outputs are in compliance with
environmental and social safeguards set out in the Supplemental Technical
Guidelines (Environmental and Social Safeguards), as evidenced by a duly
completed and satisfactory compliance indicators form in the form set out in
the Operations Manual.

The Sub-projects which produced the Outputs were included on the list of Sub-
projects that the Selected Local Government submitted to BPKP for
Verification of Outputs, from which list BPKP shall have selected a Sample of
Sub-projects to verify and shall have carried out verification for technical,
safeguards, financial and procurement compliance in accordance with
paragraph 5 of this Section.

(i) The Sub-project was for a contract value of up to $500,000 equivalent; or
(ii) the Subproject was for a contract value of more than $500,000 equivalent
and up to $1,000,000 equivalent, a decree to establish the ULP has been issued
by the relevant Selected Local Government, and such ULP has been properly
staffed and budgeted in a manner acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank; or
(iii) the Subproject was for a contract value of more than $1,000,000 equivalent
and up to $2,000,000 equivalent, a decree to establish the ULP has been issued
by the relevant Selected Local Government, such ULP has been properly
staffed and budgeted in a manner acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank, and
the bidding process of the relevant contract (including invitation to bid, receipt
of bids, and award of contract) has been carried out using an electronic
procurement system.

The Sub-project which produced the Outputs was undertaken by a Selected
Local Government which has concluded a Commitment Letter.

Any Output that does not meet the Eligibility Criteria shall not be eligible for
Advance Payment or Reimbursement.

Output Verification and Reimbursement Procedures. Reimbursement of Outputs
(and confirmation of Advance Payment) is conditional upon the verification
procedures set out below having been followed, except as may be otherwise agreed in
writing between the Borrower and the Bank.

(a)

BPKP Verification Activities. BPKP shall verify the timeliness and accuracy
of the financial and technical reports submitted, respectively, to MOF and
MPW by Selected Local Governments to ensure that Outputs have been
achieved in compliance with the Technical Guidelines and the Supplemental
Technical Guidelines (Environmental and Social Safeguards). BPKP shall also
provide a qualitative assessment of the Selected Local Government's
(b)

(Cc)

(d)

(e)

15 of 33 LN 8438-ID

performance through a report on the qualitative information based on the
results from the verification check list and sampling to the field.

BPKP shall undertake the verification process during each Fiscal Year of
Project implementation in accordance with the VO Terms of Reference in all
Selected Local Governments, in each case on a representative Sample basis,
acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank.

BPKP shall complete and submit to the PIU a Verification Report, for each
Fiscal Year of Project implementation in accordance with the VO Terms of
Reference, by May 31 of the subsequent Fiscal Year (or such other date as may
be agreed in writing between the Borrower and the Bank). The PIU shall
submit the Verification Report to the Bank. Each Verification Report shall
follow the template specified in the VO Terms of Reference, shall report on the
compliance with Output Eligibility Criteria, shall include a qualitative
assessment of the performance of Selected Local Governments based on the
results from the verification check list and field sampling, and shall propose the
amount of Reimbursement for such Fiscal Year determined in accordance with
the reimbursement procedures meeting the requirements of sub-paragraph (d) ~
(j) of this paragraph 5. The PIU shall use such report as the sole basis to request
a Reimbursement.

DAK Transfers made by the Borrower to Selected Local Governments. The
Borrower shall annually allocate a total amount of DAK funds for Selected
Local Governments for each Fiscal Year of Project implementation in
accordance with the schedule set out in the DAK Implementing Regulations,
and shall notify the Bank of this amount by no later than March 31 in such
Fiscal Year, commencing with March 31, 2015 (Annual DAK Allocation).
MOF shall make payments of DAK funds (DAK Transfers) from the
Borrower’s budget to each Selected Local Government in accordance with the
DAK Regulations in each Fiscal Year of Project implementation.

Advance Payments against Outputs. The Borrower may request withdrawal of
the proceeds of the Loan as an Advance Payment against Outputs in each
Fiscal Year of Project Implementation, beginning with Outputs produced in
Fiscal Year 2015. Each Advance Payment shall be subject to the procedures
and conditions set out below, except as may be otherwise agreed in writing
between the Borrower and the Bank.

(1) The amount of the Advance Payment in any Fiscal Year shall not
exceed the sum of the Rupiah values of the first of the DAK Transfers
made by MOF to each Selected Local Government by March 31 in
such Fiscal Year as such transfers are verified by BPKP, provided,
however, that in no event shall the Advance Payment exceed 30% of
the Annual DAK Allocation for transportation, irrigation, water and
sanitation for that Fiscal Year as specified in the DAK Implementing
Regulations.
(f)

(il)

16 of 33 LN 8438-ID

The Advance Payment in any given Fiscal Year may be made prior to
the Verification of Outputs; provided, however, that it is subject to set-
off, as set out in sub-paragraph (g) of this paragraph, following the
receipt by the Bank of the Verification Report for Outputs for that
Fiscal Year to ensure that proceeds of the Loan are not disbursed in
excess of the Value of Total Reimbursement for all Selected Local
Governments for that Fiscal Y ear.

Reimbursement of Verified Outputs. The Borrower may request withdrawal
of the proceeds of the Loan as a Reimbursement against Outputs in each Fiscal
Year of Project implementation, beginning with Outputs produced in Fiscal
Year 2015. Each Reimbursement shall be subject to the procedures and
conditions set out below, except as may be otherwise agreed in writing between
the Borrower and the Bank.

(i)

(il)

(iii)

(iv)

(v)

(vi)

(vil)

BPKP shall verify that each Selected Local Government has entered
into a Commitment Letter.

BPKP shall verify by February 28 that the Reference Unit Costs were
provided in the subject Fiscal Year and represent a reasonable estimate
of the cost by province and outputs as specified in the Technical
Guidelines.

BPKP shall calculate the Value of Potential Reimbursement for each
Selected Local Government by multiplying the volume of Outputs
produced by Sub-projects undertaken by Selected Local Government
by their Reference Unit Costs.

BPKP shall verify a Sample of the Sub-projects in each Selected Local
Government in accordance with the VO Terms of Reference to
determine compliance with the Eligibility Criteria. Based on the
Outputs in the Sample for each Selected Local Government that meets
the Eligibility Criteria) BPKP shall calculate the Qualifying
Percentage for that Selected Local Government for that Fiscal Year.

BPKP shall calculate the Value of Qualifying Reimbursement for
each Selected Local Government for that Fiscal Year by multiplying
the Qualifying Percentage by the Value of Potential Reimbursement.

BPKP shall calculate the Value of Total Reimbursement that may be
made by the Bank to the Borrower for that Fiscal Year which shall be
the sum of the Value of Qualifying Reimbursement for all Selected
Local Governments.

BPKP shall calculate the Value of Final Reimbursement that may be
made by the Bank to the Borrower for that Fiscal Year, by subtracting
the Advance Payment made in that Fiscal Year from the Value of Total
Reimbursement.
(g)

(h)

17 of 33 LN 8438-ID

(viii) BPKP shall calculate the LG Incentive and Reimbursement as
follows: (A) for each Selected Local Government that has utilized the
Web-Based Reporting System for the reporting of DAK expenditures,
BPKP shall multiply the Value of Qualifying Reimbursement for that
Selected Local Government for that Fiscal Year by 10%; and (B) for
each Selected Local Government that has not utilized the Web-Based
Reporting System for the reporting of DAK expenditures, BPKP shall
multiply the Value of Qualifying Reimbursement for that Selected
Local Government for that Fiscal Year by 7.5%; it being understood
that these percentages may, by prior written agreement between the
Borrower and the Bank, be revised for the purposes of calculating the
LG Incentive and Reimbursement. Upon receipt by the Borrower of
Reimbursement from the Bank in any Fiscal Year, MOF shall transfer
to each Selected Local Government its respective LG Incentive and
Reimbursement.

(ix) Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Value of Total Reimbursement
made by the Bank to the Borrower in any Fiscal Year shall in no event
exceed the annual DAK budget for roads provided by Selected Local
Governments and Annual DAK Allocation for irrigation, water and
sanitation made by the Borrower for such Fiscal Year plus 10%
(attributable to a portion of the LG Contribution).

Set-Off, \n the event that the amount of the Advance Payment in any Fiscal
Year exceeded the amount eligible for rembursement by the Bank (the Value
of Total Reimbursement) at the end of the Fiscal Year as set out in the
Verification Report for that Fiscal Year, then the amount of the Advance
Payment will be reduced in the subsequent Fiscal Year by the amount of
overpayment in that Fiscal Year (Advance Payment minus Value of Total
Reimbursement). The Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, reduce the
amount of the Advance Payment, or decline to provide any Advance Payment,
for any subsequent year of Project implementation in the event that this clause
was invoked in any Fiscal Year.

Review of Verification Reports. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of
this paragraph 5, the Bank retains the right to review any Verification Report
and, based on such review, to not disburse, or to disburse a lesser amount of the
proceeds of the Loan for, any particular requested Advance Payment or
Reimbursement.

Without limiting the provisions of Article VII of the General Conditions, if the
Bank shall have determined at any time that any Outputs did not comply with
the Technical Guidelines or the Supplemental Technical Guidelines
(Environmental and Social Safeguards) or that a Selected Local Government
has failed to deliver all the Outputs of a Sub-project, the Bank may at that time:
(A) in any year of Project implementation except the last year, offset future
Advance Payments and/or Reimbursements by the amount equal to the amount
of Loan proceeds disbursed to finance Outputs not delivered by such Selected
Local Government; or (B) obtain a refund to the Bank from the Borrower of an
()

18 of 33 LN 8438-ID

amount equal to the amount of Loan proceeds disbursed to finance Outputs not
delivered by such Selected Local Government. Refunds to the Bank pursuant
to sub-paragraph (B) shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of this
Agreement, including the General Conditions.

The Verification Report shall provide reasonable details satisfactory to the
Borrower and the Bank of any cases of corrupt practice, collusive practice,
fraudulent practice, coercive practice or obstructive practice (in each case as
defined in the Anti-Corruption Guidelines) which come to BPKP’s attention in
the carrying out of the activities set out in the VO Terms of Reference.

Provision of TA Funds. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this
paragraph 5, for each Fiscal Year beginning with Fiscal Year 2015, if either of
the PIU or BPKP has not provided the Work Plan and documentation of TA
Funds or BPKP budget in accordance with paragraph 2(a) or (b), respectively,
of Section I.C of this Schedule, then the Bank will not make any Advance
Payment or Reimbursement for Outputs produced in such Fiscal Y ear.

Implementation Arrangements for Part 2 and Part 3 of the Project

(a)

(b)

(a)

(b)

Except as may be otherwise agreed in writing between the Borrower and the
Bank, the Borrower shall make available TA Funds in an amount equal to not
less than $10,000,000 equivalent over the period of Project implementation on
the schedule agreed between the Borrower and the Bank in accordance with
this paragraph for the purpose of carrying out the activities under Part 2 of the
Project.

Except as may be otherwise agreed in writing between the Borrower and the
Bank, the Borrower shall make available TA Funds to BPKP in an amount
equal to not less than $10,000,000 equivalent over the period of Project
implementation on the schedule agreed between the Borrower and the Bank in
accordance with this paragraph for the purpose of carrying out the activities
under Part 3 of the Project.

The Borrower, through the PIU, shall submit to the Bank, by no later than
January 1 of each Fiscal Year (beginning with January 1, 2015), a Work Plan,
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank, for the upcoming Fiscal Year. Such
plan shall include the needs assessment, work plan, staffing and procurement
plan and terms of reference and TA Funds budget. The PIU shall also, at the
request of the Bank, provide evidence of the TA Funds in the MOF DIPA
during the subject Fiscal Year.

In accordance with the VO Terms of Reference, BPKP shall submit to the
Bank, by no later than January | of each Fiscal Year (beginning with January
1, 2015), a Work Plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for verification activities,
including technical and environmental and social safeguards capacity, for the
upcoming Fiscal Year. Such plan shall include the needs assessment, work
plan, staffing, procurement plan and BPKP budget.
19 of 33 LN 8438-ID

Environmental and Social Safeguards

The Borrower shall issue Supplemental Technical Guidelines (Environmental and
Social Safeguards) acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank, setting out requirements
for Sub-projects in Selected Local Governments, including:

(a)
(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

avoiding and, if it is unavoidable, limiting land acquisition and resettlement;

setting forth the measures and actions to be taken during the implementation of
the Project for the provision of compensation, rehabilitation and resettlement
assistance to Displaced Persons, including the requirement to submit a land
acquisition and resettlement action plan (LARAP) and/or the Indigenous
Peoples Plan (IPP), satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank, to the local
planning agency (BAPPEDA) for approval prior to submission of the Sub-
project to be proposed for DAK financing during the planning and
programming stage;

setting forth the measures and actions to be taken during the implementation of
the Project for: (i) the informed involvement of Indigenous Peoples, through a
process of free, prior and informed participation, in the design and
implementation of each Sub-project to be, or being, carried out in a location in
which such people reside or use for their livelihood; and (11) designing and
implementing measures to provide benefits which are socially and culturally
acceptable to them, and reduce, mitigate and offset adverse impacts of Sub-
projects;

setting forth the measures and actions to be taken during the implementation of
the project for: (i) identifying potential adverse environmental and social
impacts and safeguard instruments required through an environmental
screening process and social assessment; and (ii) designing environmental
management and monitoring measures to prevent, minimize, or mitigate
potential adverse environmental and social impacts and to enhance positive
impacts;

setting forth the negative list of types of Sub-projects the Outputs of which
shall not be eligible for Advance Payment or Reimbursement out of the
Proceeds of the Loan, including, without limitation, each as defined in the
Supplemental Technical Guidelines (Environmental and Social Safeguards):

(1) Sub-projects using or producing ozone-depleting substances, pesticides,
tobacco or tobacco products;

(11) Sub-projects using or producing, storing or transporting hazardous
materials (toxic, corrosive or explosive) or generating "B3" (hazardous)
wastes;

(iii) | Sub-projects located in a Protected Area or that may change the
purpose and/or designation of a Protected Area;
E.

20 of 33 LN 8438-ID

(iv) | Sub-projects involving conversion of critical natural habitat;

(v) Sub-projects that would degrade or damage cultural property, including
not only physical artifacts and structures but also sites considered
sacred or otherwise having spiritual importance; or

(vi) | Sub-projects for new swamp reclamation network or continuation of
existing swamp reclamation network; and

(f) additional procedures for monitoring, reporting and evaluation of
environmental management and social safeguard plans, and monitoring
measures to prevent, minimize, or mitigate potential adverse environmental and
social impacts, as specified in the Supplemental Technical Guidelines
(Environmental and Social Safeguards).

The Supplemental Technical Guidelines (Environmental and Social Safeguards) may
be amended from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank and the
Borrower. By October 31, 2015, the Borrower shall carry out a review of the
application of the Supplemental Technical Guidelines (Environmental and Social
Safeguards) to the Project. Based on such review, the Borrower shall amend the
Supplemental Technical Guidelines (Environmental and Social Safeguards) if so
requested by the Bank, in a manner acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank, and shall
ensure that the Project be carried out in accordance with said reviewed Supplemental
Technical Guidelines (Environmental and Social Safeguards) starting on January 1,
2016.

The Borrower shall take all actions necessary to ensure that each Selected Local
Government shall undertake Sub-projects in accordance with the Supplemental

Technical Guidelines (Environmental and Social Safeguards).

Anti-Corruption

The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
the Anti-Corruption Guidelines and the Anti-Corruption Action Plan.
21 of 33 LN 8438-ID

Section IT. Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation

Project Reports

The Borrower, through the PIU, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project
and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the
General Conditions and on the basis of Performance Indicators agreed with the Bank.
Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the period
covered by such report. Project Reports shall include reporting required by the
Technical Guidelines.

The Borrower, through the PIU, shall prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to
the Bank, and furnish to the Bank, by no later than March 31, 2017 a mid-term report
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to
paragraph 1| of this Section IJ.A, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the
Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of
the objectives thereof during the period following such date.

Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits

The Borrower, through the PIU, shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial
management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.

The Borrower, through the PIU, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than
forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial

reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank.

The Borrower, through the PIU, shall have its Financial Statements audited in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each
audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the
Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to
the Bank not later than six months after the end of such period.

Section III. Procurement

General

Goods, Works and Services other than Consultants’ Services. All goods, works
and services other than consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements
set forth or referred to in Section I (excluding paragraph 1.16) of the Procurement
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
22 of 33 LN 8438-ID

Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to
the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines.

Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services other than
Consultants’ Services

Performance-Based Procurement. Contracts for goods, works and services other
than consultants’ services shall be awarded in accordance with paragraph 3.16 of the
Procurement Guidelines, using competitive procurement methods acceptable to the
Bank.

Community Participation in Procurement. Contracts for goods under sanitation
Subprojects shall be awarded in accordance with paragraph 3.19 of the Procurement
Guidelines, using competitive methods acceptable to the Bank.

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

All contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.

Improvement of Procurement Systems by Selected Local Governments

Without limitations to the provisions of Section III-A, Section III.B and Section III-C
of this Schedule 2, the Borrower, through the PIU, shall ensure that as of January 1,
2015 each Selected Local Government shall undertake procurement for Sub-projects
through its respective procurement services unit (ULP), with the exception of the
procurement of sanitation Subprojects which shall be carried out in accordance with
Section III.B.2 above.

The Borrower, through the PIU, shall ensure that documents pertaining to the
procurement and contracting process, shall be retained in the Selected Local
Government’s files until one year after the Project’s Closing Date and shall be subject
to review by BPKP as the VO, and a copy of which, shall, at the request of the Bank,
be provided to the Bank.

Section IV. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

General

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World
Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to
time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such
instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2
below.
23 of 33 LN 8438-ID

2. The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for
Eligible Expenditures in each Category.

Amount of the Loan Percentage of
Allocated Expenditures to be
Category (expressed in USD) Financed
(inclusive of Taxes)

(1) Payments for Outputs of 500,000,000 100% of the Value of Total

Sub-projects under Part | Reimbursement
of the Project

TOTAL AMOUNT 500,000,000

B. Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

 

l. Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end
Fee.

2. Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made

for any Outputs produced prior to January 1, 2015.

3. For each Fiscal Year of Project implementation, the Borrower agrees that it shall not
submit any application for withdrawal for that Fiscal Year unless:

(a) the Bank has received a Verification Report for that Fiscal Year in accordance
with the VO Terms of Reference, acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank;

(b) the Borrower has made the TA Funds for such Fiscal Year available in
accordance with paragraphs | and 2 of Section I.C of this Schedule; and

(c) BPKP remains the VO for that Fiscal Year, the VO Terms of Reference remain
in effect as between BPKP and MOF, and BPKP and the Bank, respectively,
and the requirements stipulated in Section I.A.6(c) of this Schedule 2 are
fulfilled as of the date of the withdrawal request.

4. The Closing Date is December 31, 2018.
24 of 33 LN 8438-ID

SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule

l. The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date (“Installment Share”). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the
Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment
Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable
amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4
of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.

Principal Payment Date Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)

         
   
    
  

December 1,208 —SOC~C“‘*“‘*‘“S*~CSC“‘S~CS*‘

2. If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:

  

 
 
 
 
     

(a) To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance
as of such date in accordance with paragraph | of this Schedule.

(b) Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid
on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such
withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment
Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal
Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) and the denominator of which is
25 of 33 LN 8438-ID

the sum of all remaining Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment
Dates falling on or after such date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as
necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to
which a Currency Conversion applies.

(a) Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following
the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date
commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of
withdrawal.

(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of
such billing system.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period,
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (1) the exchange rate that
reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (i) if the Bank so
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate
component of the Screen Rate.

If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such
amount.
26 of 33 LN 8438-ID

APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

l.

“Advance Payment” means the amount of the proceeds of the Loan that may be
withdrawn by the Borrower from Category | of the table in Section IV.A of Schedule 2
to this Agreement against expected Outputs for a particular Fiscal Year during Project
implementation, calculated in accordance with paragraph S(e) of Section I.B of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement (as some of these expressions are defined hereafter).

“Annual DAK Allocation” means the allocation made in the Borrower’s national
budget (APBN) in each Fiscal Year of Project implementation for DAK Transfers to
Selected Local Governments (as some of these expressions are defined hereafter).

“Anti-Corruption Action Plan” means the Borrower’s plan, included in the Operations
Manual, designed to integrate the contents of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines and to
give effect thereto, and giving details of a program of actions, measures and policies
designed to reduce or eliminate fraud and corruption in all its forms under the Project,
including: enhanced information disclosure provisions; expansion and enhancement of
Web-Based Monitoring and Reporting System for allocation and transfer of DAK by
the Borrower and contribution to, disbursement of, and outputs from, DAK by the
Local Governments; civil society oversight provisions focused on awareness and
possibilities for use of the Web-Based Reporting System; and a complaint handling
mechanism, focused on establishment and integration of a complaints handling system
into the Web-Based Reporting System; and an appropriate regime of sanctions and
remedies, as applicable to each Sub-project, as the Anti-Corruption Action Plan may be
updated from time to time by written agreement between the Borrower and the Bank
(as some of these expressions are defined hereafter).

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and
Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.

“APBN” means Anggaran Pendapatan Belanja Negara, the Borrower’s national
budget in any given Fiscal Year (as some of these expressions are defined hereafter).

“BAPPENAS” means Badan Perencanaan Pembangunan Nasional, the Borrower’s
National Development Planning Agency, and any successor thereto.

“BAPPEDA” means Badan Perencanaan Pembangunan Daerah, the planning agency
of any of the Selected Local Governments, and any successor thereto.

“BPKP” means Badan Pengawasan Keuangan dan Pembangunan, the Indonesian
national government internal auditor, or any successor thereto as may be agreed in
writing between the Borrower and the Bank for the purposes of the Project.

“Calendar Year’ means the period comprised between January | of each year and
December 31 of the same year.
13.

14.

16.

17.

27 of 33 LN 8438-ID

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.

“Circular Letter” means an instruction to be issued by the Minister of Public Works
with respect to the Supplemental Technical Guidelines (Environment and Social
Safeguards).

“Commitment Letter’ means each letter to be submitted by each Selected Local
Government to the PIU setting forth the obligations in the implementation of Sub-
projects in accordance with paragraph 6 of Section LA of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.

“DAK” means Dana Alokasi Khusus, or central government’s specific purpose grants,
the Borrower’s system of inter-governmental transfers to Selected Local Governments
to fund investment expenditures considered to be national priorities of the Borrower as
listed in the Technical Guidelines.

“DAK Implementing Regulations” means, collectively, the regulations pursuant to
which the DAK is budgeted, allocated and implemented pursuant to: (a) Government
Regulation No. 55/2005 on Balance Funds, pursuant to which the Ministry of Finance
must provide the DAK allocation for a given Fiscal Year within two weeks of the
issuance of the APBN and pursuant to which MPW must issue technical guidelines to
govern implementation of DAK in the infrastructure sector; (b) PMK
06/PMK.07/2012 on Implementation and Accountability of Transfer to Regions Fund;
(c) the Technical Guidelines; and (d) the Supplemental Technical Guidelines
(Environmental and Social Safeguards), as such regulations may be supplemented or
amended from time to time.

“DAK Transfer” means a transfer by the Borrower of DAK funds to a Selected Local
Government for infrastructure in accordance with the DAK Implementing Regulations,
including the schedule and number of transfers to be made in any Fiscal Year; and
“DAK Transfers” means more than one DAK Transfer.

“DIPA” means Daftar Isian Pelaksanaan Anggaran, a government budget document.

“Displaced Person” means a person who, on account of the execution of the Project,
has experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts caused by: (a)
the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of shelter; (11) loss of
assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources or means of livelihood,
whether or not such person must move to another location; or (b) the involuntary
restriction of access to legally designated parks and protected areas, resulting in
adverse impacts on the livelihood of such person, and “Displaced Persons” means,
collectively, all such Displaced Persons.

“Eligibility Criteria” means the criteria for determining Outputs set out in paragraph 4
of Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
20.

21.

22.

23.

24.

25.

26.

27.

28.

29.

30.

31.

32.

28 of 33 LN 8438-ID

“Fiscal Year” and “FY” mean the Borrower’s fiscal year commencing January | and
ending December 31.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated March 12, 2012.

“Head of PIU” means a core team from the Directorate General of Fiscal Balance of
MOF operating in accordance with paragraph 3(c) of Section ILA of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.

“Indigenous Peoples” means those social groups in Indonesia that have a distinct social
and cultural identity, and that are susceptible to being disadvantaged in the
development process induced by the Project or any part thereof.

“Kabupaten” means a district, an administrative division of the Borrower.
‘“‘K ota” means an urban district, an administrative division of the Borrower.

“LG Contribution” means the funds required to be contributed by a Local Government
toward activities for which a Local Government uses DAK Transfers received by it
from the Borrower.

“LG Incentive and Reimbursement” means the portion of a Reimbursement made by
the Bank to the Borrower which is attributable to a Selected Local Government and
which shall be transferred by MOF to the Selected Local Government, as set out in
paragraph 5(f)(viii) of Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Local Government” or “LG” mean a government of a Kabupaten, Kota or Province.

“Ministry of Finance” and “MOF” mean the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance, and any
successor thereto.

“Ministry of Home Affairs” and “MOHA" mean the Borrower’s Ministry of Home
Affairs and any successor thereto.

“Ministry of Public Works” and “MPW” mean the Ministry of Public Works of the
Borrower, and any successor thereto.

“Operations Manual” means the manual to be adopted by the Borrower, through MOF,
pursuant to Section 5.01(i) of this Agreement and to be used by the Borrower in
implementing the Project, meeting the requirements of paragraph 1 of Section 1.B of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and such expression includes all schedules and annexes
to said manual; as such Operations Manual may be amended or updated from time to
time with the prior written agreement of the Bank and the Borrower.

“Original Project” means the project financed by a loan provided by the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development in the amount of $220,000,000 to the
Borrower pursuant to the Original Loan Agreement.
33.

34.

35.

36.

37.

38.

39.

40.

41.

42.

29 of 33 LN 8438-ID

“Original Loan Agreement” means the agreement (Loan No. 7914-ID), dated June 23,
2010, between the Borrower and the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development for the Project, as such agreement has been and may be amended from
time to time.

“Output” means any of the units referred to in the Technical Guidelines and in the
Supplemental Technical Guidelines (Environment and Social Safeguards) that result
from a Sub-project (e.g, kilometers or other units of measurement) meeting the
Eligibility Criteria and the requirements to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
in accordance with this Agreement and verified by BPKP, as set forth in paragraphs 2 —
5 of Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and “Outputs” means more than one
Output.

“Part” means a part of the Project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

“Performance Indicators” means the performance indicators for the Project agreed
between the Borrower and the Bank through letter dated as of the date of this
Agreement, as such indicators may be revised from time to time with the written
agreement of the Borrower and the Bank.

“PIU” means the central-level Project management unit formed by staff from the
Directorate General of Fiscal Balance of MOF, staff from MOHA, staff from
BAPPENAS and staff from MPW, and operating in accordance with paragraph 1 of
Section I.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“PMK” means a Peraturan Menteri Keuangan, a regulation issued by the Ministry of
Finance.

“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and
Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World
Bank Borrowers” dated January 2011.

“Protected Areas” means those areas identified in the Minister of the State for the
Environment Decree PerMen LH No05/LH/2012, entitled “Concerning the Types of
Businesses Activities Required to Complete an Environmental Impact Assessment: and
including: forest protection areas; marine/freshwater conservation areas; nature tourism
parks; areas surrounding lakes and reservoirs; coastal mangrove areas; national parks;
coastal edges; forest parks; cultural reserves; areas surrounding springs; scientific
research areas; and nature conservation areas.

“Province” means an administrative sub-division of the Borrower’s territory at the first
level below the national level.

“Qualifying Percentage” means, for each Selected Local Government in each Fiscal
Year, the percentage of compliance with the Eligibility Criteria for Outputs produced
by Sub-projects undertaken by that Selected Local Government and verified on a
Sample basis by BPKP in accordance with paragraph 5 of Section I.B of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
43.

44.

45.

46.

47.

48.

49.

50.

30 of 33 LN 8438-ID

‘Reference Unit Cost” means the cost of goods, works, non-consultant services and
consultant services required to produce units of Outputs, acceptable to the Borrower
and the Bank, to be notified by MPW to the Bank and to BPKP by February 15 of each
Fiscal Year of Project Implementation and included in the Operations Manual, and
“Reference Unit Costs” means all of said Reference Unit Cost.

“Reimbursement” means an amount of the proceeds of the Loan that may be
withdrawn by the Borrower from Category | of the table in Section IV.A of Schedule 2
to this Agreement against verified Outputs in accordance with this Agreement, which
shall not exceed in any Fiscal Year the Value of Total Reimbursement for that Fiscal
Y ear.

“Rupiah” and “Rp” means the currency of the Borrower.

“Sample” means the method, to be set out in the VO Terms of Reference and agreed by
the Bank, by which BPKP shall review an agreed sub-set of Selected Local
Government’s Sub-projects and Outputs produced using the proceeds of DAK
Transfers from the Borrower to the Selected Local Government and from the Selected
Local Government’s LG Contribution.

“Selected Kabupaten” means the Kabupaten of a Selected Province.
‘Selected Kota” means the Kota of a Selected Province.

“Selected Local Government” means the government of each Selected Province and of
each Kabupaten and Kota in a Selected Province which has entered into a Commitment
Letter, and which shall carry out, or cause to be carried out, a Sub-project in
accordance with this Agreement and the Technical Guidelines and the Supplemental
Technical Guidelines (Environmental and Social Safeguards), and “Selected Local
Governments” means more than one Selected Local Government.

“Selected Province” means: (i) for activities carried out and expenditures incurred in
Calendar Year 2015, each of the following Provinces: Jambi, East Java, Central
Kalimantan, West Sulawesi, North Maluku, Bengkulu, Lampung, West Java, Central
Java, West Kalimantan, North Sulawesi, South Sulawesi, East Nusa Tenggara, and
West Nusa Tenggara; (ii) for activities carried out and expenditures incurred in
Calendar Year 2016, each of the following Provinces: Jambi, East Java, Central
Kalimantan, West Sulawesi, North Maluku, Bengkulu, Lampung, West Java, Central
Java, West Kalimantan, North Sulawesi, South Sulawesi, East Nusa Tenggara, West
Nusa Tenggara, West Sumatera, South Sumatera, Bangka Belitung, Bali, South
Kalimantan, Central Sulawesi, Gorontalo and Maluku; and (iii) for activities carried
out and expenditures incurred in Calendar Year 2017, each of the following Provinces:
Jambi, East Java, Central Kalimantan, West Sulawesi, North Maluku, Bengkulu,
Lampung, West Java, Central Java, West Kalimantan, North Sulawesi, South Sulawesi,
East Nusa Tenggara, West Nusa Tenggara, West Sumatera, South Sumatera, Bangka
Belitung, Bali, South Kalimantan, Central Sulawesi, Gorontalo, Maluku, North
Sumatera, Riau, Kepulauan Riau, Daerah Istimewa Yogyakarta, Banten, East
Kalimantan, North Kalimantan, and South East Sulawesi, as such list of Selected
Provinces may be changed from time to time by prior written agreement of the
SI.

52.

53.

54.

55.

56.

57.

31 of 33 LN 8438-ID

Borrower and the Bank, it being understood that any such change must be agreed prior
to January 1 in any Fiscal Year in order for such change to be applied to such Fiscal
Year and “Selected Provinces” means more than one Selected Province.

“Sub-project” means a specific infrastructure project/contract (paket pekerjaan)
undertaken by a Selected Local Government or a designee thereof and meeting the
requirements of the Technical Guidelines and Supplemental Technical Guidelines
(Environment and Social Safeguards), which is financed by DAK Transfers and/or LG
Contribution, and “Sub-projects” means more than one Sub-project.

“Supplemental Technical Guidelines (Environment and Social Safeguards)” means the
supplement to the Technical Guidelines, acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank,
meeting the requirements of Section I.D of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, dated June
26, 2014 to be updated pursuant to Section I.D.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and
to be issued by MPW pursuant to Section 5.01(i) of this Agreement, binding on all
Selected Local Governments and setting out requirements for Sub-projects in Selected
Local Governments, as they may be further amended, from time to time, by agreement
between the Borrower and the Bank.

“TA Funds” means the budget to be provided by the Borrower for carrying out Part 2
of the Project, as such TA Funds may be agreed by the Bank and the Borrower, as
applicable, for each Fiscal Year in accordance with Section I.C of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.

“Technical Guidelines” means the guidelines, issued by MPW and binding on all Local
Governments, including the Supplemental Technical Guidelines (Environmental and
Social Safeguards) on the implementation of the DAK for each infrastructure subsector
(Ministerial Decree No. 15/PRT/M/2010), and subsequent letters of instruction (surat
edaran) which include the list of eligible types of Sub-projects (mainly maintenance,
rehabilitation and upgrading or improving existing infrastructure), technical
requirements, implementation requirements, reporting, monitoring and evaluation
requirements, and procedures and requirements for environmental and _ social
safeguards management during the planning, implementation and operation of Sub-
projects, including monitoring, reporting and evaluation, as such guidelines may be
further amended, updated or supplemented from time to time and applied to the Project
with the prior written agreement of the Bank and the Borrower.

“ULP” means a Unit Layanan Pengadaan procurement services unit.

“Value of Final Reimbursement” means, for each Fiscal Year, the Value of Total
Reimbursement minus the Advance Payment, which shall not exceed the Annual DAK
Allocation plus 10%.

“Value of Potential Reimbursement” means, for each Selected Local Government in
each Fiscal Year, the volume of Outputs by that Selected Local Government,
multiplied by their Reference Unit Costs.
58.

59.

60.

61.

62.

63.

64.

65.

32 of 33 LN 8438-ID

“Value of Qualifying Reimbursement” means, for each Selected Local Government in
each Fiscal Year, the Value of Potential Reimbursement multiplied by the Qualifying
Percentage.

“Value of Total Reimbursement” means, for each Fiscal Year, the sum of the Value of
Qualifying Reimbursement for all Selected Local Governments (which may also be
calculated as the total of: (i) the Advance Payment, and (ii) the Value of Final
Reimbursement for all Selected Local Governments, the Reimbursement to be made by
the Bank to the Borrower).

“Verification Arrangement” means the arrangement to be entered into between the
Bank and BPKP pursuant to paragraph 6(b) of Section LA of this Agreement and
setting out the arrangements pursuant to which BPKP will undertake the activities of
the VO Terms of Reference, as said agreement may be updated from time to time by
agreement between the Bank and BPKP.

“Verification of Outputs” means the procedures for verification of Outputs of the VO
as set out in the VO Terms of Reference and meeting the requirements set out in
paragraph 5 of Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Verification and Reimbursement Procedures” means, collectively, the procedures for
verification of Outputs, Sample, determination of the Qualifying Percentage for any
given Project period, and the reporting requirements of the VO as set out in the VO
Terms of Reference and meeting the requirements set out in paragraph 5 of Section I.B
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“VO Terms of Reference” means the terms of reference document of BPKP setting out
the requirements for technical (engineering), procurement, financial management and
environmental and social safeguards specialists to perform the output verification
function described in paragraph 5 of Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement on
the basis of the Sample, acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank, as such document
may be updated or amended from time to time with the prior written agreement of: (1)
the Borrower and BPKP; and (ii) the Bank and BPKP.

“Verifier of Outputs” or “VO” means BPKP as staffed to meet the requirements set out
in paragraph 2 of Section 1A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, including the
engagement of technical (engineering), procurement, financial management and
environmental and social safeguards experts in accordance with the VO Terms of
Reference.

“Verification Report” means a verification report for Fiscal Year of Project
Implementation, satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower, issued by the VO in
accordance with the Verification and Reimbursement Procedures, and meeting the
requirements of paragraph 5 of Section IB of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, including
certifying the Qualifying Percentage and the proposed amount of Reimbursement and a
qualitative assessment of the performance of Selected Local Governments based on the
results from the verification check list and field sampling.
66.

67.

33 of 33 LN 8438-ID

“Web-Based Reporting System” means the system to be established by the Borrower
under Part 2 of the Project, through upgrading and enhancing the existing web-based
transaction monitoring system of the Ministry of Finance, to increase transparency and
effectiveness of DAK, including as set out in the Anti-C orruption Action Plan.

“Work Plan” means: (i) the consolidated annual work plans of each of MOF, MOHA,
BAPPENAS and MPW: and (ii) the work plan of BPKP for supplementing and
strengthening technical, financial management, procurement and environmental and
social safeguards capacity required for Project implementation, in each case
satisfactory to the Bank.
