Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

~ gunmen amenina "> 3°3-

OFFICIAL ©
DOCUMENTS

£, MB”

 

 

 

SCF-PPCR LOAN NUMBER TF016912
SCF-PPCR GRANT NUMBER TF016955
CREDIT NUMBER 5495-DM

Strategic Climate Fund
Pilot Program for Climate Resilience

Loan Agreement

(Disaster Vulnerability Reduction Project)
between
COMMONWEALTH OF DOMINICA
and

INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
acting as an Implementing Entity of the Pilot Program for
Climate Resilience under the Strategic Climate Fund

Dated June lo — ,2014

 

 
SCF-PPCR LOAN NUMBER TF016912
SCF-PPCR GRANT NUMBER TF016955
CREDIT NUMBER 5495-DM

STRATEGIC CLIMATE FUND LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT dated June lo . 201Y entered into
between COMMONWEALTH OF DOMINICA (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“World Bank”), acting not in its individual capacity
but solely in its capacity as an implementing entity of the Pilot Program for Climate
Resilience (“PPCR”) under the Strategic Climate Fund (“SCF”).

WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower and the International Development Association,
intend to enter into a financing agreement (Financing Agreement) for the purpose of
providing a credit to the Borrower to assist in financing Parts A and C of the Project on
the terms and conditions set forth in the Financing Agreement.

(B) the Borrower and the International Development Association, acting as
an implementing entity of the Pilot Program for Climate Resilience (Pilot Program for
Climate Resilience (PPCR)) under the Strategic Climate Fund, intend to enter into a grant
agreement (PPCR Grant Agreement) for the purpose of making a grant to the Borrower to
assist in financing Parts A, B and D of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in
the PPCR Grant Agreement; and

NOW THEREFORE, the Borrower and the World Bank hereby agree as follows:

Article I
Standard Conditions; Definitions

1.01. The Standard Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

1.02. Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Standard Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.

Article IT
Loan

2.01. The World Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set
forth or referred to in this Agreement, the amount of nine million United States
Dollars ($9,000,000) (“Loan”), to assist in financing Part A of the project
described in Schedule | to this Agreement (“Project”).
2.02.

2.03.

2.04.

2.05.

2.06.

2.07.

3.01.

3.02.

4.01.

4.02.

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

The Loan is funded out of the resources made available to the World Bank as an
implementing entity of the SCF. In accordance with Section 3.02 of the Standard
Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement), the World Bank’s
payment obligations in connection with this Agreement are limited to the amount of
funds made available to it from the SCF trust fund, and the Borrower's right to
withdraw the Loan proceeds is subject to the availability of such funds.

The Service Charge payable by the Borrower on the Withdrawn Loan Balance
shall be equal to one-tenth of one percent (1/10 of 1%) per annum.

The Payment Dates are February 1 and August | in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
repayment schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

The Payment Currency is USD.

Article U1
The Project

The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of
Article Il of the Standard Conditions.

Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the World Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

Article IV
Effectiveness; Termination

The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely
that the Financing Agreement and the PPCR Grant Agreement have been
executed and delivered and all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of said
Financing Agreement and PPCR Grant Agreement or to the right of the Borrower
to make withdrawals under any said Agreement (other than the effectiveness of

this Agreement) have been fulfilled.

Without prejudice to the provisions of the Standard Conditions, the Effectiveness
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no

case later than eighteen (18) months after the World Bank’s approval of the

Loan.
5.01.

5.02.

5.03.

Article V
Borrower’s Representative; Addresses

The Borrower’s Representative referred to in Section 10.02 of the Standard
Conditions is the Minister responsible for finance.

The Borrower’s Address referred to in Section 10.01 of the Standard Conditions
iS:

Ministry of Finance
Financial Centre

Kennedy Avenue, Roseau
Commonwealth of Dominica

Facsimile:
1-767-448-0054

The World Bank’s Address referred to in Section 10.01 of the Standard
Conditions 1s:

International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America

Cable: Telex: Facsimile:

INDEVAS 248423 (MCI) 1-202-477-639 |
Washington, D.C.
AGREED at k OSeau | ominica.__, as of the day and year first

above written.

COMMONWEALTH OF DOMINICA

By

 

Authorized Representative

Name: p oosevelé Ske &

Title: 9 Mini niske of Gaane

INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
acting as an Implementing Entity of the Pilot Program for
Climate Resilience under the Strategic Climate Fund

By

    

Authorized Representative

Name: Plessandro Lea, 0 Kesghie
‘Title: Lot OK ;
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description

The objective of the Project is to reduce vulnerability to natural hazards and

climate change impacts in the Borrower’s territory through: (1) investment in resilient
infrastructure, and (ii) improved hazard data collection and monitoring systems.

Part A:

1.

The Project consists of the following parts:

Prevention and Adaptation Investments

Carrying out of selected infrastructure investments, including: (a) construction of
water storage and distribution infrastructure; (b) slope stabilization; (c)
rehabilitation of transportation infrastructure including, inter alia, selected
primary and secondary roads and bridges; and (d) improvement of drainage in
selected areas, all through the provision of works, technical advisory services,
operating costs and acquisition of goods.

Part B: Capacity Building and Data Development, Hazard Risk Management and
Evaluation

Part C:

Building the capacity for analysis and assessment of risks from natural hazards
and climate change, including integration of such analysis into policy and
decision making process for the development of investments, and developing
data collection systems, including: (a) creation of high resolution digital
topographic and bathymetric model for the Recipient; (b) creation of a high
resolution soils survey map; (c) design and deployment of robust hydromet
network; and (d) development of district and community level climate
adaptation plans, all through the provision of technical advisory services and
training, and acquisition of goods.

Natural Disaster Response Investments

Carrying out of Emergency Recovery and Reconstruction Subprojects under an
agreed action plan of activities (Agreed Action Plan of Activities) designed as a
mechanism to implement the Borrower’s response to an Emergency.
 

Part D: Project Management and Implementation Support

1.

Strengthening the institutional capacity for Project management, including: (a)
strengthening the capacity and staffing of the PCU; (b) preparation of investment
designs and tender documents; (c) preparation of Project reports; (d) processing
of contracts and tender evaluation; (e) coordination of participating line
ministries; (f) supervision of the quality of works; (g) provision of training of
staff of the PCU in Project management and implementation support; (h)
monitoring and evaluation of the Project progress and results; and (i) carrying out
related activities on Project management and implementation, all through the
provision of technical advisory services, training and operating costs, and
acquisition of goods.
 

Section I.

SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Institutional and Other Arrangements

A. Institutional Arrangements

l. Project Steering Committee

(a)

(b)

(a)

(b)

The Borrower shall ensure that the Project Steering Committee is
maintained at all times during the implementation of the Project, with a
composition, mandate, and in form and substance satisfactory to the
World Bank.

Without limitation to sub-paragraph (a) immediately above, the
Borrower shall ensure that the Project Steering Committee will be
responsible for providing policy guidance to ensure prompt and efficient
implementation of the Project, including, inter alia: (i) reviewing
progress made towards achieving the Project’s objective; and (ii)
facilitating the coordination of Project activities, and making
recommendations for removal of any obstacles to the implementation of
the Project.

Project Coordination Unit; Ministry of Environment

The Borrower shall operate and maintain, at all times during the
implementation of the Project, the Project Coordination Unit, with
functions, staffing and resources satisfactory to the World Bank.

Without limitation to the provisions of Section I.A.lof this Schedule, the
PCU shall be responsible for the day-to-day administration of the overall
Project planning, evaluation, reporting, communication and coordination,
the technical and fiduciary (ie., procurement and financial management
in coordination with the Ministry of Finance) aspects, and the
environmental and social safeguards compliance, all in accordance with
the provisions of this Agreement and the Project Operations Manual.

3, Ministry of Finance and Line Ministries and Agencies

(a)

Without limitation to the provisions of Section [.A.] and LA.2 of this
Schedule, and for the purpose of ensuring the prompt and efficient
implementation of the Project, the Borrower shall ensure that the Project
Coordination Unit shall, at all times during the implementation of the
Project, carry out the fiduciary management (ie., procurement and
financial management) under the Project, with the technical support of its
Ministry of Finance, including the requirement that said Project
Coordination Unit, coordinate and provide to the Ministry of Finance
reports on the fiduciary aspects of the Project in a timely manner, in
accordance with the Operations Manual.

(b) Without limitation to provisions of Section LA.1 and I.A.2 of this
Schedule, the Borrower shall ensure that its Ministry Public Works,
Dominica Water and Sewerage Authority, the Office of Disaster
Management, and other relevant ministries and agencies (Line Ministries
and Agencies), provide as may be required, technical support to the
Project Coordination Unit for relevant technical supervision and
implementation of respective Project activities in the area of expertise of
the relevant Line Ministry or Agency, in accordance with the Project
Operations Manual.

Project Operations Manual

The Borrower shall, carry out Parts A, B and D of the Project in accordance with
the provisions of the Project Operations Manual, containing detailed
arrangements and procedures for: (a) institutional coordination and day-to-day
execution of said Parts of the Project; (b) Project budgeting, disbursement and
financial management; (c) procurement; (d) environmental and social safeguard
guidelines; (e) monitoring, evaluation, reporting and communication; and (f)
such other administrative, financial, technical and organizational arrangements
and procedures as shall be required for the said Parts of the Project.

The Borrower shall not amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce any provision
of the Project Operations Manual without the prior written agreement of the
World Bank: provided, however, that in case of any conflict between the
arrangements and procedures set out in the Project Operations Manual and the
provisions of this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.

Action Plans for Emergency Recovery and Reconstruction Subprojects
under Part C of the Project

The Borrower shall carry out Part C of the Project in accordance with the
provisions of Section [.C of Schedule 2 to the Financing Agreement.

Anti-Corruption

The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
Environmental and Social Safeguards

The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
Environmental Management Framework (EMF), the Environmental Assessment
(EA), the Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF), the Indigenous Peoples Plan
(IPP) respectively, including the guidelines, rules and procedures defined in said
EMF, EA, RPF and IPP. To this end, the Borrower shall, specifically take the
following actions in a manner acceptable to the World Bank:

(a) if an environmental management plan or similar safeguard instrument
would be required on the basis of the EMF: (i) such environmental
management plan or similar safeguard instrument shall be prepared in
accordance with the requirements of the EMF, disclosed locally and
furnished to the World Bank for approval; and (ii) if applicable, the
pertinent Project activities shall be carried out tn accordance with such
environmental management plan or similar safeguard instrument as
approved by the World Bank; and

(b) if a resettlement action plan would be required on the basis of the
Resettlement Policy Framework: (i) said resettlement action plan shall be
prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Resettlement Policy
Framework, disclosed locally and furnished to the World Bank for
approval; and (ii) no works for in respect of such Project activity shall
commence until: (A) all measures required to be taken under said
resettlement action plan have been taken in accordance with the terms of
said plan and in a manner acceptable to the World Bank; and (B) the
Recipient has furnished to the Association a report in form and substance
satisfactory to the World Bank, on the status of compliance with the
requirements of said resettlement action plan.

The Borrower shall ensure that all measures required for carrying out the
Environmental Assessment, the Indigenous Peoples Plan, any environmental
management plan or similar safeguard instrument, and any resettlement action
plan are taken in a timely manner.

The Borrower shall include in the Project Reports referred to in Section ILA.1 of
this Schedule adequate information on the implementation of the EMF, the EA,
the RPF, the IPP, any environmental management plan or similar safeguard
instrument, and any resettlement action plan, giving details of:

(a) measures taken in furtherance of the EMF, the EA, the RPF, the IPP,
any environmental management plan or similar safeguard instrument,
and any resettlement action plan;
(b) conditions, if any, which interfere or threaten to interfere with the
smooth implementation of the EMF, the EA, the RPF, the IPP, any
environmental management plan or similar safeguard instrument, and
any resettlement action plan; and

(c) remedial measures taken or required to be taken to address such
conditions and to ensure the continued efficient and effective
implementation of the EMF, the EA, the RPF, the IPP, any
environmental management plan or similar safeguard instrument, and
any resettlement action plan.

4, Specific Environmental Covenant for Part B of the Project

The Borrower shall ensure that the terms of reference for any consultancy in
respect of any Project activity under Part B of the Project shall be satisfactory to
the World Bank following its review thereof and, to that end, such terms of
reference shall duly incorporate the requirements of the World Bank Safeguard
Policies then in force, as applied to the advice conveyed through such technical
assistance.

Section II. Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation

A. Project Reports; Completion Report

1. The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.06 of the Standard
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators acceptable to the World Bank. Each
Project Report shall cover the period of six (6) calendar months, and shall be
furnished to the World Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of
the period covered by each such report.

2. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 2.06 of the Standard Conditions,
the Borrower shall: (a) on or about the date twenty four (24) months after the
Effective Date, submit to the World Bank a mid-term report, in such detail as the
World Bank shall reasonably request, documenting progress achieved in the
carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of the mid-term
report, taking into account the monitoring and evaluation activities performed
pursuant to Section ILA.1 of this Schedule, and setting out the measures
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the
achievement of the objective thereof during the period following such date; and
(b) review with the World Bank the mid-term report, on or about the date one
month after its submission, and thereafter take all measures required to ensure the
efficient implementation of the Project and the achievement of its objectives,
based on the conclusions and recommendations of the mid-term report and the
World Bank’s views on the matter.

-10-
Bn [oe

The Borrower shall prepare the Completion Report in accordance with the
provisions of Section 2.06 of the Standard Conditions. The Completion Report
shall be furnished to the World Bank not later than six (6) months after the
Closing Date.

Financial Management; Financial Reports; Audits

The Borrower shall ensure that a financial management system is maintained in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of the Standard Conditions.

Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
ensure that interim unaudited financial reports for the Project are prepared and
furnished to the World Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of
each calendar quarter, covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to
the World Bank.

The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements for the Project audited in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 (b) of the Standard Conditions.
Each such audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal
year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such period
shall be furnished to the World Bank not later than six months after the end of
such period.

Section III. Procurement

General

Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the SCF Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth
or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions
of this Section.

Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the SCF Loan shall be procured in accordance
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.

Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the World Bank of
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II
and Ill of the Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, TV and V of the
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.

_ll-
D.

I.

Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services

International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2
below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.

Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services.
The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be

used for goods, works and non-consulting services for those contracts specified
in the Procurement Plan: (a) National Competitive Bidding; (b) Shopping; and
(c) Direct Contracting.

Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services

Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the

basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.

Other Methods of Procurement_of Consultants’ Services. The following
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants’ services for those assignments which are specified in
the Procurement Plan: (a) Quality Based Selection; (b) Selection under a Fixed
Budget; (c) Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications; (d) Least-Cost
Selection; (e) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant
Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants; (f) Single Source
Procedures for selection of firms; and (g) Single Source Procedures for the
Selection of Individual Consultants set forth in paragraph 5.6 of the Consultant
Guidelines.

Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions

The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shail be subject to the
World Bank’s Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review
by the World Bank.

All terms of reference for consultants’ services, regardless of the contract value,
shall be subject to the World Bank’s prior review.

-|2-
Section IV. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. General

l. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of: (a) Article III of the Standard Conditions; (b) this Section; and (c)
such additional instructions as the World Bank may specify by notice to the
Borrower (including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects”
dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the World Bank and as made
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.

2. The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocations of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category:

    

    
     

 
  
  
 

Amount of the Loan | Percentage of Expenditures

  

   
 

     
     
     
     
       
     
 
      
    

  

  

Allocated to be Financed
(expressed in USD) (inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, Works, non- 9,000,000 32%
consulting services,
consultants’ services,
Operating Costs and Training
under Part A of the Project
(2) Goods, Works, non- 0%
consulting services,
consultants’ services,
Operating Costs and Training
under Part B of the Project
(3) Goods, Works, non- 0%
consulting services,
consultants’ services,
Operating Costs and Training
under Part C of the Project
(4) Goods, Works, non- 0%

consulting services,
consultants’ services,
Operating Costs and Training
under Part D of the Project

-13-

    
 

 
    
      
For the purpose of the table set forth immediately above:

(a)

(b)

the term “Operating Costs” means the incremental expenses incurred on account
of Project management, including office space rental for the PCU, office
equipment and supplies, vehicle operation and maintenance, communication and
insurance costs, office administration costs, utilities, travel and per diem,
excluding the salaries of the Borrower’s civil service; and

the term “Training” means the cost associated with the training and workshops
approved by the World Bank, for reasonable expenditures (other than
expenditures for consultants’ services), including: (i) travel, room, board and per
diem expenditures incurred by trainers and trainees in connection with their
training; (ii) course fees; (iii) training facility rentals; and (iv) training material
preparation, acquisition, reproduction and distribution expenses.

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shail be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.

The Closing Date is July 1, 2020.

-14-
SCHEDULE 3
Repayment Schedule

Principal Amount of the Loan
repayable
(expressed as a percentage)

On each February| and August 1: po

commencing August 1, 2024 to and including 1%

February 1, 2034
commencing August 1, 2034 to and including 2%
February |, 2054

    
   
    

Date Payment Due

     

       

_|5-
APPENDIX
Definitions

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.

“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers” dated January 2011.

“Displaced Person” means a person who, on account of the execution of the
Project had or would have their: (i) standard of living adversely affected; or (ii)
access to, or right, title, interest in any house, land (including premises,
agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset acquired or
possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (iii) business, occupation, work or
place of residence or habitat adversely affected; and “Displaced Persons” means,
collectively, all such Displaced Persons.

“Dominica Water and Sewerage Company” means the authority established and
operating pursuant to Water and Sewage Act (Act No. 9 of 1994) of the laws of
the Recipient, and any successors thereto.

“Environmental Assessment” or “EA” means the Borrower’s report for the
Project dated February 2014, and disclosed in-country on February 27, 2014, and
subsequently re-disclosed on March 25, 2014, and in the World Bank’s InfoShop
on February 21, 2014, and subsequently re-disclosed on March 27, 2014,
describing the set of avoidance, mitigation, enhancement, monitoring, and
institutional measures to be taken under any activity for rehabilitation or
construction to avoid, mitigate, offset, or reduce adverse environmental and
social impacts to acceptable levels, or to enhance positive impacts.

“Environmental Management Framework” or “EMF” means the Borrower's
framework, acceptable to the World Bank, dated February 2014, and disclosed
in-country on February 27, 2014, and subsequently re-disclosed on March 25,
2014, and in the World Bank’s InfoShop on February 21, 2014, and subsequently
re-disclosed on March 27, 2014, setting forth the modalities for environmental
screening and procedures/actions for the preparation and implementation of
environmental assessments and management plans under the Project, including a
generic standardized EMP for minor works, and such term includes all schedules
and annexes to the Environmental Management Framework.

-16-
10.

12.

“Financing Agreement” means the financing agreement referred in paragraph (A)
of the preamble to this Agreement, as such agreement may be amended from
time to time. “Financing Agreement” includes all appendices, schedules and
agreements supplemental to the Financing Agreement.

“Indigenous Peoples” means, a social group of people with a distinct social and
cultural identity that makes them vulnerable to being disadvantaged in the
development process, including the presence in varying degrees of the following
characteristics: (i) a close attachment to ancestral territories and to the natural
resources in these areas; (ii) self-identification and identification by others as
members of a distinct cultural group; (iii) an indigenous language, often different
from the national language; (iv) presence of customary social and political
institutions; and (v) primarily subsistence-oriented production.

“Indigenous Peoples Plan” or “IPP” means the Borrower’s plan, acceptable to the
World Bank, dated February 2014, and subsequently re-disclosed on March 26,
2014, and disclosed in-country on February 25, 2014, and in the World Bank’s
InfoShop on February 25, 2014, and subsequently re-disclosed on March 27,
2014, setting forth measures for addressing the needs of the Indigenous Peoples
living in the Carib Council within the territory of the Borrower, and providing
guidelines and procedures for consultation with, and informed participation of
Indigenous Peoples residing or cultivating lands in areas under the Project.

“Line Ministries and Agencies” mean the Borrower’s Ministry of Public Works,
Energy and Ports, Dominica Water and Sewerage Authority, Office of Disaster
Management, and other relevant ministries and agencies that may participate in
the implementation of the Project.

“Office of Disaster Management” means the Borrower’s office for disaster
management within the Ministry of National Security, Immigration and Labor.

“Pilot Program for Climate Resilience (PPCR) Grant Agreement” means the
grant agreement referred to in paragraph (B) of the preamble to this Agreement,
as such grant agreement may be amended from time to time. “PPCR Grant
Agreement” includes all appendices, schedules and agreements supplemental to
the PPCR Grant Agreement.

“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers” dated January 201 1.

“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project,
dated March 24, 2014, and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.

-17-
 

 

pene Un POUR OCI Dn Auta nun apn VEER te eR A Nt AR TTA AN AI NARI BAR CRA SS OS A, ART,

 

18.

19.

20.

21.

“Project Coordination Unit” or “PCU” means the coordination unit within the
Borrower’s Ministry of Environment, and referred to in Section [.A.2(a) of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement or any successor thereto.

“Project Operations Manual” means the Borrower’s manual referred to in Section
[.B.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Project Steering Committee” means the committee referred to in Section 1.A.1
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Resettlement Policy Framework” or “RPF” means the Borrower’s framework,
acceptable to the World Bank, dated February 2014, and disclosed in-country on
March 5, 2014, and subsequently re-disclosed on March 25, 2014, and in the
World Bank’s InfoShop on February 26, 2014, and subsequently re-disclosed on
March 27, 2014, setting forth the modalities for resettlement and compensation
of Dislocated Persons, including guidelines for the preparation of the
resettlement plans, all under the Project, as the same may be amended from time
to time with the agreement of the World Bank.

“Standard Conditions” means the Standard Conditions for Loans Made by the
World Bank Out of the Climate Investment Funds, dated February 18, 2014.

“World Bank Safeguard Policies” means the World Bank’s operational policies
and procedures set forth in the Bank’s Operational manual under OP/BPs 4.01,
4.04, 4.09, 4.10, 4.11, 4.36, 4.37, 7.50 and 7.60 as said manual is published under

www. WorldBank.org/opmanual.

-18-
