Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

OFFICIAL —
| DOCUMENTS |

: Aa”

».

 

wee ae” ,

>

‘ie

 

SCF LOAN NUMBER TF016083

Strategic Climate Fund
Loan Agreement

(Bolivia Climate Resilience-Integrated Basin Management Project)

between

PLURINATIONAL STATE OF BOLIVIA

and

INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION

acting as an implementing entity of the Strategic Climate Fund

Dated eeeuber 9 , 2014
SCF LOAN NUMBER TF016083

STRATEGIC CLIMATE FUND
LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT dated Ke Lerche’ Gg ; 2014 entered into between:

PLURINATIONAL STATE OF BOLIVIA (‘Borrower’) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“World Bank”), acting not in its individual capacity
but solely in its capacity as an implementing entity of the Strategic Climate Fund
(“SCF’’).

The Borrower and the World Bank hereby agree as follows:

1.01.

1.02.

2.01.

2.02.

2.03.

2.04.

Article I
Standard Conditions; Definitions

The Standard Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Standard Conditions, in the
Appendix to this Agreement, or in the Appendix to the SCF Grant Agreement (as
the case may be).

Article II
Loan

The World Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set
forth or referred to in this Agreement, the amount of thirty six million United
States Dollars ($36,000,000) (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (‘‘Project”’).

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

The Loan is funded out of the resources made available to the World Bank as an
implementing entity of the SCF. In accordance with Section 3.02 of the Standard
Conditions, the World Bank’s payment obligations in connection with this
Agreement are limited to the amount of funds made available to it from the SCF
trust fund, and the Borrower’s right to withdraw the Loan proceeds is subject to the
availability of such funds.

The Service Charge payable by the Borrower on the Withdrawn Loan Balance
shall be equal to 0.10% per annum.
2.05.

2.06.

2.07.

3.01.

3.02.

4.01.

The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
repayment schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

The Payment Currency is USD.

Article III
The Project

The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall, through the Ministerio de Medio Ambiente y Agua
(MMAyA):

(a) (i) carry out Parts A and B of the Project; and (11) cause the FPS to carry
out Part C.1(b), (c) and (d) of the Project in accordance with the FPS
Agreement; and

(b) cause the Gobierno Autonomo Departamental de Santa Cruz and
SEARPI, and the Gobierno Autonomo Departamental de Cochabamba
(through the SDC) to carry out the Project activities under Parts C.1 (a)
and C.2 of the Project which fall under their territorial jurisdiction in
accordance with the Santa Cruz Agreement and the Cochabamba
Agreement, respectively;

all in accordance with the provisions of Article II of the Standard Conditions.

Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the World Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

Article [IV
Additional Remedies

The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:
(a) The Borrower’s Strategy Program for Climate Resilience (“SPCR”) has

been amended, suspended or abrogated so as to affect materially and
adversely, in the opinion of the World Bank, the execution of the Project.
4.02.

5.01.

5.02.

6.01.

6.02.

(b) The FPS shall have failed to comply with any of its obligations under the
FPS Agreement.

The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that any
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a
period of 60 days after notice of the event has been given by the World Bank to
the Borrower.

Article V
Effectiveness; Termination

The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) the Borrower has adopted the Operational Manual.

(b) the FPS Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and the
FPS.

Without prejudice to the Standard Conditions, the Effectiveness Deadline is the
date one hundred and eighty (180) days after the date of this Agreement, but in
no case later than eighteen (18) months after the World Bank’ s approval of the
Loan which expires on January 25, 2016.

Article VI
Borrower’s Representative; Addresses

The Borrower’s Representative referred to in Section 10.02 of the Standard

Conditions is the Minister of Development Planning.

The Borrower’s Address referred to in Section 10.01 of the Standard Conditions
iS:

Ministerio de Planificacién del Desarrollo
Avenida Mariscal Santa Cruz No. 1092
La Paz, Bolivia

Facsimile:
011-591-2-23107-93
6.03.

The World Bank’s Address referred to in Section 10.01 of the Standard

Conditions is:

International Development Association

1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America

Cable: Telex: Facsimile:
INDEVAS 248423 (MCI) or 1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 64145 (MCT)

AGREED arta (ois Maomation ef ale p Polince, as of the

day and year first above written.

PLURINATIONAL STATE OF BOLIVIA

By:
Authorized Representative
Name: E. Viviana Caro Fn ON
DEL DESARROLLO
Title:

INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION

Acting as an implementing entity of the
Strategic Climate Fund

By:

 

Name: 14% ots \ — VOS
SCHEDULE 1

Project Description

The objective of the Project is to support the implementation of the Borrower’s
Strategic Program for Climate Resilience by: (a) strengthening the Borrower’s
institutional capacity to define the new integrated river basin management approach to
climate change adaptation; and (b) supporting its implementation in three pilot sub-basins
in the Rio Grande basin.

The Project consists of the following parts:

Part A: Strengthening National Capacity for Climate Change Adaptation

l.

Provision of support for creating the Borrower’s climate and water
information system through, inter alia: (a) (1) designing the
national climate and water information system; and (1i) establishing said
systems in the MMAyA, the SENAMHI and the SEARPI (including the
provision of training thereof); and (b) carrying out hydro-meteorological
and climate change related studies.

Provision of support for integrating climate change adaptation into
selected planning and investment tools, through, inter alia: (a) updating:
(1) the national guidelines on climate resilience basin-scale planning and
management; (11) the guidelines for the carrying out of pre-investment
studies of water sector related investments; (b) providing inputs on
climate change adaptation to the Borrower’s national planning (the
National Development Plan); and (c) the provision of training on the use
of said updated tools.

Provision of support to UCP-PPCR for, inter alia: (a) implementing
Parts A and B of the Project and monitoring and supervising the Project,
including auditing Parts A, B and C.2 of the Project; and (b)
coordinating, monitoring and evaluating the Project, and disseminating
related findings and lessons learned.

Part B: Strengthening Capacity for Adaptation to Climate Change in the Rio

Grande Basin

1.

Provision of support for, inter alia: (a) strengthening the SEARPI and the
SDC’s institutional capacity for an integrated, participatory, basin-scale
climate resilience planning and management in their respective Pilot
Sub-basins; (b) establishing mechanisms to facilitate stakeholder
participation in river basin planning; and (c) formulating integrated,
multi-sectorial, participatory and climate resilient river basin
management plans in the Pilot Sub-basins.

Provision of support for strengthening the water and climate information
systems in the Pilot Sub-Basins through, inter alia: (a) updating the
hydro-meteorological observation networks; and (b) establishing and/or
strengthening the data processing centers and early warning systems for
flood and droughts.

Part C: Design and Implementation of Sub-projects that improve Climate
Resilience in the Rio Grande River Basin

I.

(a) Design and implementation of pre-investment studies (including the
environmental and social aspects) of Infrastructure Subprojects; (b)
based on said studies, carrying out of Infrastructure Subprojects; (c)
provision of training to Eligible Beneficiaries for the operation and
maintenance of the Infrastructure Subprojects; and (d) financing FPS
Operating Costs for the implementation, supervision and auditing of the
activities under Part C.1 (b) and (c) of the Project.

(a) Design and implementation of pre-investment studies (including the
environmental and social aspects) of the Watershed Management
Subprojects; (b) based on said studies, carrying out of Watershed
Management Subprojects; (c) provision of training to Eligible
Beneficiaries for the operation and maintenance of Watershed
Management Subprojects; and (d) provision of support to the SEARPI
and the SDC for the implementation and supervision of the activities
under Part C.2 (a), (b) and (c) of the Project under their respective
territorial jurisdiction.
SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Section I. Institutional and Other Arrangements

A.

l.

Institutional Arrangements.

Without prejudice of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall vest the
overall responsibility for the monitoring and supervision of the implementation
of the Project in MMAyA, and to this end shall, through MMAyA:

(a) maintain, throughout Project implementation, a unit with operational
autonomy (“UCP-PPCR”’) with structure, functions and responsibilities
acceptable to the World Bank as set forth in the Operational Manual,
including inter alia, the responsibility of the UCP-PPCR to coordinate,
monitor and supervise the carrying out of the Project; and

(b) ensure that the UCP-PPCR is, throughout Project implementation,
headed by a Project coordinator and staffed with adequate professional,
fiduciary, administrative and technical personnel (including procurement
and financial specialists), with qualifications, experience and terms of
employment acceptable to the World Bank, as set forth in the
Operational Manual; all selected and hired following the competitive and
transparent selection processes, as detailed in the Operational Manual.

The Borrower shall cause the FPS to hire and maintain, as required throughout
the implementation of the Parts of the Project under its responsibility, a team of
dedicated professionals in adequate numbers and with functions and
responsibilities, qualifications and experience acceptable to the World Bank
(including the responsibility over the financial and audit aspects of said Parts of
the Project), including among them social, environmental, contract management,
monitoring and evaluation, financial management and procurement specialists, as
described in the Operational Manual).

Prior to carrying out Parts A.1 and B.2 (in the Rio Mizque sub-basin) of the
Project, the Borrower, through MMAyA, shall: (a) enter into an agreement with
the SENAMHI under terms and conditions acceptable to the World Bank
(“SENAMHI Agreement”), which shall include, inter alia, their respective roles
and responsibilities, including SENAMHI’s obligation to carry out the technical
implementation of the activities under said Parts of the Project; and (b) (i)
exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the SENAMHI Agreement
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the World Bank
and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and (ii) except as the World Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, terminate,
waiver or fail to enforce the SENAMHI Agreement or any provision thereof.

No later than three (3) months after the Effective Date, the Borrower shall, and
shall cause the Gobierno Autonomo Departamental de Santa Cruz and Gobierno
Autonomo Departamental de Cochabamba to, establish and maintain throughout

the implementation of the Project, a management information system acceptable
to the World Bank.

The obligations set forth in Section I of Schedule 2 to the SCF Grant Agreement,
as applicable to the Gobierno Autonomo Departamental de Santa Cruz and
Gobierno Autonomo Departamental de Cochabamba are incorporated into this
Agreement with the following modifications: (a) the term “Recipient” means
“Borrower” and the term “ this Agreement” means “ the SCF Loan Agreement”.

Implementation Arrangements.

To facilitate the carrying out of the activities under Part C.1 (b), (c) and (d) of the
Project, the Borrower shall make part of the proceeds of the Loan available, on a
grant basis, to the FPS under a subsidiary agreement (“FPS Agreement”) to be
entered into between the Borrower and the FPS, under terms and conditions
acceptable to the World Bank, which shall include inter alia:

(a) the obligation of the FPS to: (i) comply with the pertinent provisions of
this Agreement (including the provisions of Article II of the Standard
Conditions, the pertinent obligations set forth in the Safeguards,
Procurement and Financial Management sections), the Operational
Manual and the Anti-Corruption Guidelines; (ii) promptly inform the
Borrower and the World Bank of any condition which interferes, or
threatens to interfere, with the performance of its obligations under the
FPS Agreement ; and (iii) take or permit to be taken all actions to enable
the Borrower to comply with the obligations referred to in this
Agreement as applicable to the FPS; and

(b) the right of the Borrower to take remedial actions (including restitution
of funds) against the FPS in case the FPS shall have failed to comply
with any of its obligations under the FPS Agreement.

The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the FPS
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
World Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the World
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate,
terminate, waive or fail to enforce the FPS Agreement or any provision thereof.
Infrastructure Subprojects.

For the purposes of carrying out Infrastructure Subprojects and after having
selected an Infrastructure Subproject in accordance with the guidelines and
procedures set forth in the Operational Manual and the provisions in paragraph 2
below, the Borrower shall cause the FPS to, together with the Gobierno
Autonomo Departamental de Santa Cruz or the Gobierno Auténomo
Departamental de Cochabamba (as the case may be), enter into a separate
agreement with the pertinent Eligible Beneficiary (“Infrastructure Subproject
Implementation Agreement”), under terms and conditions acceptable to the
World Bank , which shall include, inter alia: (i) the FPS’s obligation to: (A)
procure the goods, works, non-consulting services and consultants’ services for
said Infrastructure Subproject in accordance with Section III of this Schedule;
(B) comply with the Anti-Corruption Guidelines, the pertinent obligations set
forth in the Safeguards and Financial Management Sections of this Agreement
and the Operational Manual; and (C) take or permit to be taken all actions to
enable the FPS to comply with its obligations under each Infrastructure
Subproject Implementation Agreement; (ii) the Eligible Beneficiary’s obligation
to: (A) operate and maintain the Infrastructure Subprojects; and (B) provide as
needed the resources to co-finance part of the costs of the Infrastructure
Subproject as defined in the Operational Manual; and (iii) the Gobierno
Autonomo Departamental de Santa Cruz or the Gobierno Auténomo
Departamental de Cochabamba’s obligation to provide as needed the resources
to co-finance part of the costs of the Infrastructure Subproject as defined in the
Operational Manual.

The Borrower, through the MMAYyA shall cause the FPS to furnish to the World
Bank for its prior review and approval at least the first two Infrastructure
Subprojects, as set forth in the Procurement Plan.

Operational Manual.

Without limitation to the provisions of Section 2.01 of the Standard Conditions,
the Borrower, through the MMAyA shall, and shall cause the FPS, the Gobierno
Autonomo Departamental de Santa Cruz, the SEARPI and the Gobierno
Autonomo Departamental de Cochabamba to: (a) carry out the Project in
accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual which shall include,
inter alia: (i) the eligibility criteria and procedures for the selection, approval,
carrying out, monitoring, supervision and evaluation of the Subprojects
(including a negative list of environmentally sensitive investments ineligible for
financing under the Subprojects); (ii) the procurement, financial management and
disbursement requirements, procedures, and documenting (including standard
bidding documents) for the Project; (iii) the Performance Monitoring Indicators;
(iv) the powers, responsibilities, structure and key staff composition of the UCP-
PPCR and the units within the FPS, the Gobierno Auténomo Departamental de
Santa Cruz, the SEARPI and the Gobierno Autonomo Departamental de
Cochabamba; (v) the policies and procedures for the Borrower’s coordination of
the implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the Project, including inter
alia, the procedures for: (A) coordinating requests for amendments, waivers, and
other communications between the FPS, the Gobierno Autonomo Departamental
de Santa Cruz , the Gobierno Autonomo Departamental de Cochabamba, the
Borrower and the World Bank, including requests for the reallocation or
cancellation of proceeds of the Loan; and (B) preparing and submitting the
Project Reports, Financial Statements and other information prepared by the FPS,
the Gobierno Autonomo Departamental de Santa Cruz and the Gobierno
Autonomo Departamental de Cochabamba for delivery to the World Bank; (vi)
the Eligible Beneficiaries’ co-financing arrangements under the Subprojects; (vii)
the EMF; (viii) the RPF; (ix) the IPPF; and (x) guidelines for the carrying out
feasibility studies of Subprojects by the Gobierno Autonomo Departamental de
Santa Cruz and the Gobierno Autonomo Departamental de Cochabamba.

Except as the World Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, through the
MMAYA shall, and shall cause the FPS, the Gobierno Autonomo Departamental
de Santa Cruz, the SEARPI and the Gobierno Auténomo Departamental de
Cochabamba to, not amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce the Operational
Manual, or any provisions thereof. In case of any conflict between the terms of
this Agreement and those of the Operational Manual, the terms of this Agreement
shall prevail.

Anti-Corruption.

The Borrower through the MMAyA shall, and shall cause the FPS, the Gobierno
Autonomo Departamental de Santa Cruz, the SEARPI and the Gobierno
Autonomo Departamental de Cochabamba to, ensure that the Project is carried
out in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.

Safeguards.

The Borrower, through the MMAyA, shall, and shall cause the FPS, the
Gobierno Autonomo Departamental de Santa Cruz, the EARPI and the Gobierno
Autonomo Departamental de Cochabamba to: (a) implement the Project in
accordance with the EMF; (b) adopt and comply with the procedures detailed in
said EMF for environmental screening, evaluation, implementation and
monitoring of the works under the Subprojects, including the procedures for the
preparation of environmental management plans, when applicable; and (c)
implement and/or cause to be implemented the pertinent environmental

management plan, in accordance with its terms and in a manner acceptable to the
World Bank.
2. The Borrower, through the MMAyA, shall, and shall cause the FPS, the
Gobierno Autonomo Departamental de Santa Cruz the, SEARPI and the
Gobierno Autonomo Departamental de Cochabamba to: (a) implement the
Subprojects in accordance with the RPF; (b) adopt and comply with the
procedures detailed in said RPF for screening, evaluation, implementation and
monitoring of the Subprojects, including procedures for the preparation of
resettlement plans when applicable; and (c) implement the pertinent resettlement
action plan or abbreviated resettlement plan.

3. The Borrower, through the MMAyA, shall, and shall cause the FPS, the
Gobierno Autonomo Departamental de Santa Cruz, the SEARPI and the
Gobierno Autonomo Departamental de Cochabamba to: (a) implement the
Project in accordance with the IPPF; and (b) adopt and comply with the
procedures detailed in said IPPF for screening, evaluation, implementation, and
monitoring of the Subprojects to be carried out in their respective jurisdiction,
including procedures for the preparation of Indigenous Peoples development
plans, when applicable; and (iii) implement the pertinent Indigenous Peoples
development plan, as needed and in accordance with its terms, in a manner
acceptable to the World Bank.

4. The Borrower, through the MMAyA, shall, and shall cause the Gobierno
Autonomo Departamental de Santa Cruz, the SEARPI and the Gobierno
Auténomo Departamental de Cochabamba to, ensure that the terms of reference
for any consultancies related to the technical assistance provided under the
Project, shall be acceptable to the World Bank and, to that end, such terms of
reference shall require that the advice conveyed through such technical assistance
be consistent with the requirements of the World Bank’s Safeguard Policies.

Section II. Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation

A. Project Reports and Mid-term Review; Completion Report.

l. The Borrower, through the MMAyA shall monitor and evaluate the progress of
the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of
Section 2.06 of the Standard Conditions and on the basis of the Performance
Monitoring Indicators. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one
calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the World Bank not later than forty
five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such report.

2. By June 30, 2017, or such other date as the World Bank shall agree upon, the
Borrower, through the MMAyA shall carry out jointly with the World Bank a
mid-term review of the implementation of activities under the Project (Mid-term
Review). The Mid-term Review shall cover the progress achieved in the
implementation of the Project. Following such Mid-term Review, the Borrower
shall act promptly and diligently to take any corrective action as shall be
recommended by the World Bank.

3. The Borrower, through the MMAyA shall prepare the Completion Report in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.06 of the Standard Conditions. The
Completion Report shall be furnished to the World Bank not later than six
months after the Closing Date.

B. Financial Management; Financial Reports; Audits.

1. The Borrower, through the MMAYyA shall, and shall cause the FPS to, ensure that
a financial management system is maintained in accordance with the provisions
of Section 2.07 of the Standard Conditions.

2. Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower,
through the MMAyA shall, and shall cause the FPS to, ensure that interim
unaudited financial reports for its respective Part(s) of the Project are prepared
and furnished to the World Bank as part of the Project Report not later than forty
five (45) days after the end of each calendar semester, covering the semester, in
form and substance acceptable to the World Bank.

3. The Borrower, through the MMAYyA shall, and shall cause the FPS to, have the
Financial Statements for their respective Part(s) of the Project audited in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 (b) of the Standard Conditions.
Each such audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal
year of the Borrower or such other period to the agreed with the Bank. The
audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the World
Bank not later than six months after the end of such period.

Section III. Procurement
A. General.

1. Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section and Section I of Annex A to this Schedule.

2. Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section and Section II of Annex A to
this Schedule.
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the World Bank of
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II
and III of the Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.

Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services.

International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.

Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following methods of procurement, other than International
Competitive Bidding, may be used for goods, works and non-consulting services.
The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such methods
may be used: (a) Limited International Bidding; (b) National Competitive
Bidding, subject to the additional provisions set forth in Section I of Annex A to
this Schedule; (c) Shopping; (d) Direct Contracting; and (f) Force Account.

Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.

Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.

Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following
methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be
used for consultants’ services. The Procurement Plan shall specify the
circumstances under which such methods may be used: (a) Quality-based
Selection; (b) Selection under a Fixed Budget; (c) Least Cost Selection; (d)
Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications; (e) Single-source Selection of
consulting firms; (f) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the
Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants; and (g) Single-
source procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants.

Review by the World Bank of Procurement Decisions.

The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
World Bank’s Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review
by the World Bank.

The Borrower, through the MMAyA shall and shall cause FPS, each for its
respective Part of the Project:

13
(a)

not later than December 31,of each year during the implementation of the
Project, beginning on December 31, 2015, or any other date agreed by
the World Bank, select and contract independent auditors with
experience and qualifications satisfactory to the World Bank, operating
under terms of reference satisfactory to the World Bank, to perform a
procurement audit of all the procurement records and documentation for
the Project, relating to the Recipient’s previous fiscal year of
implementation of the Project, in accordance with procurement auditing
principles acceptable to the World Bank (“Procurement Audit’’);

(b) not later than March 3lof each year during the implementation of the
Project, beginning on March 31, 2016 or any other date agreed by the
World Bank, and continuing for each year thereafter during the
implementation of the Project, furnish to the World Bank the report, in
form and substance acceptable to the World Bank, on the Procurement
Audit completed for the Recipient’s prior fiscal year;

(c) at all times during the implementation of the Project, furnish to the
World Bank . : d to the auditors performing a Procurement Audit, such
other information concerning the procurement records and
documentation for the Project as the World Bank or the auditors may
from time to time reasonably request; and

(d) not later than May 31 of each year during the implementation of the
Project, beginning on May 31, 2016, or any other date agreed by the
World Bank exchange views with the World Bank on the results of the
Procurement Audit completed for the Borrower’s prior fiscal year and
thereafter implement such recommended measures, taking into account
the World Bank’s views on the matter.

Section IV. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

A. General.

1. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of: (a) Article III of the Standard Conditions; (b) this Section; and (c)
such additional instructions as the World Bank may specify by notice to the
Borrower (including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects”
dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the World Bank and as made
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.

2. The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be

financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocations of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category:

Category Amount of the Percentage of Expenditures to be
Loan Allocated Financed
(expressed in USD) (inclusive of Taxes)

        
   
 
     
       
  

    

(1) Goods, consultants’ 9,900,000
services (including
audits), Training and
Operating Costs, under
Parts A and B of the

Project

   
 
    
 
    
 
   
   
   
 
   

(2) (a)Works, goods,
consultants’ services
(including audits),
Training under the
Infrastructure
Subprojects under Part
C.1 of the Project (but
excluding the
feasibility studies
under Part C.1 (a) of
the Project)

    

     
  
  

  

22,900,000 100% of the amount disbursed by the
Borrower under the Infrastructure

Subprojects)

  

   

  

3,200,000

   

(b) FPS Operating
Costs

rerwvawowwn |e

B. Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.

     

l. Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.

2. The Closing Date is June 30, 2020.
Section V. Other Undertakings

The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used to finance land
acquisition.

15
Annex A
to
SCHEDULE 2

Additional Provisions Relating to
Particular Methods of Procurement

Section I. Goods, Works and Non-Consulting Services

Without limitation upon the provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement or
the Procurement Guidelines, the following additional provisions shall apply to all goods,
works and non-consulting services procured for the Project under contracts awarded on
the basis of National Competitive Bidding (NCB):

1.

2.

10.

A merit point system shall not be used in the pre-qualification of bidders.

The award of contracts for goods, works and non-consulting services shall be
based exclusively on price and, whenever appropriate, shall also take into
account factors similar to those referred to in paragraph 2.52 of the Procurement
Guidelines, provided, however, that the bid evaluation shall always be based on
factors that can be quantified objectively, and the procedure for such
quantification shall be disclosed in the invitation to bid.

All bids shall be opened at the stipulated time and place in accordance with a
procedure acceptable to the World Bank.

The single envelope procedure shall be used.
Whenever a discrepancy shall occur between the amounts in figures and the
amounts in words of a bid, the amounts in words shall govern. No bid shall be

rejected due to arithmetic errors.

No prescribed minimum number of bids shall be required to be submitted for a
contract to be subsequently awarded.

Foreign bidders shall be allowed to participate.

Foreign bidders shall not be required to legalize any documentation related to
their bids with Borrower’s authorities as a prerequisite for bidding.

Bidders shall not be required, as condition for submitting their bids, to be
registered in the Registro Unico de Proveedores del Estado (RUPE).

No margin of preference shall be granted for any particular category of bidders.
11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

17.

In the event that a bidder whose bid was evaluated as the bid with the lowest
evaluated price withdraws its bid, the contract may be awarded to the second
lowest responsive evaluated bid.

Foreign bidders shall not, as a condition for submitting bids, be required to enter
into a joint venture agreement with local bidders.

No procurement rules or regulations of neither of the Borrower’s agencies, nor
of any state-owned entity shall apply without the prior review and consent of the
World Bank.

Borrower state-owned enterprises shall be allowed to participate in bids only
upon their compliance with the provisions of paragraph 1.10 (b) of the
Procurement Guidelines.

No contractor or supplier shall be denied fair and equitable treatment in any
resolution of dispute with the Borrower and/or any of its executing agencies.

No reference value shall be required for publication in the bidding documents or
used for the purpose of evaluation.

The SBD for NCB shall include clauses on prevention of fraud and corruption,
including the World Banks’s right to inspect and audit, that shall be identical to
those pertaining to the World Bank SBDs for ICB.

Section II. Selection of Consultant Services

Without limitation upon the provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement or
the Consultant Guidelines, the following additional provisions shall apply to all
consultants’ services procured for the Project:

I.

Consultants shall not be required, as condition for participating in the selection
process, to be registered in the Registro Unico de Proveedores del Estado
(RUPE).

Foreign consultants shall not be required, as a condition for participating in the
selection process, to enter into a joint venture agreement with local consultants,
unless the conditions stated in paragraph 1.15 of the Consultant Guidelines are
met.

Foreign consultants shall not be required, as a condition for participating in the
selection process, to legalize their proposals or any documentation related to such
proposals with Borrower’s authorities.

Foreign consultants shall not be required to be registered in the Borrower's

National Registry of Consultants (Registro Nacional de Consultoria).

17
10.

Consultants, either firms or individuals, shall not be required to present
performance securities as a condition to present proposals and sign an award
contract.

Consultants, either firms or individuals, shall not be denied fair and equitable
treatment in any dispute resolution with the Borrower and/or any of its
implementing entities.

Consultants, either firms or individuals, shall not be required to sign consultant
services contracts containing a retention amount fee clause.

Borrower state-owned enterprises shall be allowed to participate in the selection
process only upon their compliance with the provisions of paragraph 1.13 (b) of
the Consultant Guidelines.

No reference value (precio referencial) shall be used for the purpose of
evaluation.

The Request for Proposals shall include anticorruption clauses that shall be
identical to those pertaining to the World Bank’s Request for Proposals.

18
SCHEDULE 3

Repayment Schedule

repayable
expressed as a percentage
|Oneach AprillSandOctober15: | Cid

April 15, 2034
April15, 2054

    
  
    

 
    
 
APPENDIX

Definitions

l.

‘Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.

“Gobierno Autonomo Departamental de Cochabamba” means the Autonomous
Departmental Government of Cochabamba within the Borrower’s territory, as
established pursuant to the Borrower’s Decentralization Law (Ley Marco de
Autonomias y Descentralizacion), dated July 19, 2010.

“Gobierno Autonomo Departamental de Santa Cruz” means the Autonomous
Departmental Government of Santa Cruz within the Borrower’s territory, as
established pursuant to the Borrower’s Constitution dated February 7, 2009.

“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers” dated January 2011.

“Eligible Beneficiary” means any farmer, water user organization, rural
community or municipality located in any of the Pilot Sub-basins which meets
the criteria, and selected in accordance with the procedures, set forth in the
Operational Manual. Eligible Beneficiaries means collectively, all of such
beneficiaries.

“EMF” or “Environmental Management Framework” means the Borrower’s
framework acceptable to the World Bank and published in April 2013, which
contains, inter alia the environmental protection measures in respect of the
Project, including: (a) measures for chance findings of physical cultural property;
(b) protection of natural habitats and pest management; (c) guidelines for the
identification of existing environmental conditions and potential direct and
indirect environmental impacts resulting from the carrying out of the Project
(including Subprojects); (d) guidelines for the carrying out of environmental
assessments and the preparation of environmental management plans, when
applicable; (e) the recommendation of mitigation measures for each negative
impact identified; and (f) measures for enhancing each identified positive
impacts; as may be amended from time to time with the World Bank’s prior
approval.

20
10.

11.

12.

13.

“FPS” or “Fondo Nacional de Inversion Productiva y Social means the
Borrower’s Productive and Social Investment Fund, established with legal
personality pursuant to the Borrower’s Law No. 2235 of July 31, 2001 as
amended to the date of this Agreement.

“FPS Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.B.1 of Schedule 2
to this Agreement.

“FPS Operating Costs” means reasonable recurrent expenditures (none of which
would have been encountered absent the Project) incurred by FPS and directly
related to the activities described under Part C.1 (b)-(d) of the Project, including,
inter alia, travel costs (i.e. accommodation, transportation and per-diem);
operation and maintenance of office equipment; vehicle rental and purchase,
operation, insurance and maintenance costs; rental of offices; utilities; non-
durable and/or consumable office materials; salaries of FPS staff working for the
Project; and communication, printing and publications, which operating costs
shall not exceed in respect of each Infrastructure Subproject, 7% of the total cost
of each said Infrastructure Subproject.

“Infrastructure Subproject” means any eligible investment under Part C.1 (b) of
the Project which meets the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual,
consisting of, inter alia: (a) rehabilitation and modernization of existing
irrigation systems; and (b) construction of flood protection structures (artificial
levees, improved natural levees and dykes), all selected in accordance with the
provisions of the pertinent section of the Operational Manual, and the technical
assistance and Training required for the implementation and supervision of said
eligible investment, and “Infrastructure Subprojects” means, collectively, all of
such investments.

“Infrastructure Subproject Implementation Agreement” means any of the
agreements referred to in Section I. C.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“IPPF” means the Borrower’s indigenous peoples framework acceptable to the
World Bank, and published on August 5, 2013, which contains, inter alia: (a) a
plan for carrying out the social assessment under the Subprojects; (b) the
potential positive and adverse effects of such Subprojects on indigenous peoples;
(c) a framework for ensuring free, prior, and informed consultation with the
affected indigenous peoples’ communities at each stage of Project preparation
and implementation; (d) institutional arrangements (including capacity building
where necessary) for screening Subprojects, evaluating their effects on
indigenous peoples, preparing indigenous peoples plans, as needed, and
addressing any grievances; (e) monitoring and reporting arrangements; and (f)
disclosure arrangements for indigenous peoples plans to be prepared under the
IPPF as needed.

21
14,

17.

18.

19,

20.

21.

22.

23.

“Grant” means the grant provided for in the SCF Grant Agreement.

“MMAyA” means Ministerio de Medio Ambiente y Agua, the Borrower’s
Ministry of Environmental and Water Resources, or any successor thereto
acceptable to the World Bank.

‘National Development Plan” means the successors of the “Plan Nacional de
Desarrollo”, the Borrower’s plan containing the national priorities for 2006-
2011.

“Operating Costs” means reasonable recurrent expenditures (none of which
would have been encountered absent the Project), incurred by UCP-PPCR, for
the implementation of Parts A and B of the Project and the coordination and
supervision of the activities of the Project, including, inter alia, travel costs (i.e.
accommodation, transportation and per-diem); operation and maintenance of
office equipment; vehicle rental, operation, insurance and maintenance costs;
rental of offices; utilities; non-durable and/or consumable office materials; bank
charges; communication, printing and publications; salaries of support staff of
UCP-PPCR working for the Project; but excluding the Borrower’s public
servants and/or permanent employees.

“Operational Manual” means the manual adopted by the MMAyA and referred to
in Section I.D.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time with the approval of the World Bank.

“Performance Monitoring Indicators” means the indicators to be used for
monitoring and evaluating the Project, acceptable to the World Bank, as the same
may be amended from time to time with the prior consent of the World Bank.

“Pilot Sub-basins” means, collectively, the Rio Mizque sub-basin located in the
Autonomous Departments of Cochabamba and Santa Cruz, the Rio Pirai sub-
basin located in the Autonomous Department of Santa Cruz and the Rio Rocha
sub-basin located in the Autonomous Department of Cochambamba, all of which
are part of the Rio Grande basin.

“PPCR” means the Borrower’s pilot program for climate resilience within the
SPCR which components 1 and 3 are supported by the Project.

“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers” dated January 2011.

“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project,
dated December 18, 2013 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement

22
24.

25.

26.

27.

28.

29.

30.

Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.

“Resettlement” means the impact of an involuntary taking of land under the
Project, which taking causes affected persons to have their: (A) standard of living
adversely affected; or (B) right, title or interest in any house, land (including
premises, agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset
acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (C) access to productive
assets adversely affected, temporarily or permanently; or (D)_ business,
occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely affected, temporarily
or permanently.

“RPF” or “Resettlement Policy Framework” means the Borrower’s framework
acceptable to the World Bank, and published on July 30, 2013, outlining general
implementation procedures, mitigation measures and monitoring procedures for
Resettlement under the Project, including the procedures for preparation and
implementation of resettlement plans, when applicable, as said framework may
be amended from time to time with the World Bank’s prior approval.

“SCF Grant Agreement” means the agreement, of even date herewith, between
the Borrower and the World Bank, the latter acting not in its individual capacity
but solely in its capacity as implementing entity of the Strategic Climate Fund for
purposes of financing Part C.2 of the Project.

“SDC” means Servicio Departamental de Cuencas, an operational autonomous
unit established within the Gobierno Autonomo Departamental de Cochabamba
pursuant to Cochabamba’s Departmental Legislative Assembly Law 167/2011-
2012, of April 11, 2012.

_ “SEARPI” means Servicio de Encauzamiento de Aguas y Regularizacion del Rio

Pirai, a decentralized institution established within the Gobierno Autonomo
Departamental de Santa Cruz, with legal personality, pursuant to the Borrower’s
Law 550, of May 15, 1983 (as said Decree has been amended to the date of this
Agreement).

“SENAMHI” means Servicio Nacional de Meteorologia e Hidrologia, the
Borrower’s decentralized institution established within MMAyA, with legal
personality, as established pursuant to the Borrower’s Supreme Decree
08465/1968, dated September 4, 1968 (as said Decree has been amended to the
date of this Agreement).

“SENAMHI Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section IA. 3 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

23
31.

32.

33.

34,

35.

36.

37.

38.

“Strategic Program for Climate Resilience” or “SPCR” means the Borrower’s
strategy for climate resilience endorsed by the CIF in November 2011.

“Standard Conditions” means the Standard Conditions for Loans Made by the
World Bank Out of the Climate Investment Funds, dated February 18, 2014.

“Strategic Program for Climate Resilience” or “SPCR” means the Borrower’s
strategy for climate resilience endorsed by the CIF in November 2011.

“Subprojects” means collectively Infrastructure Subprojects and Watershed
Management Subprojects.

“Training” means expenditures (other than those for consultants’ services)
incurred by the Borrower in connection with the carrying out of seminars,
workshops, including the reasonable travel costs (i.e. accommodation,
transportation and per-diem, inter alia) of trainees and trainers (if applicable),
training registration fees, catering, rental of training facilities and equipment,
logistics and printing services, as well as training materials for the purposes of
and directly related to the activities described in the Project.

“UCP-PPCR” means Unidad de Coordinacién del Programa Piloto de
Resilencia Climatica, the unit established pursuant to the Borrower’s
Ministerial Resolution No.191, August 13, 2012 as amended by the Borrower’s
Ministerial Resolution No. 438, dated November 5, 2013 and referred to in
Section I.A.1 (a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Watershed Management Subproject” means any of the following eligible
investments under Part C.2 (b) of the Project which meets the criteria set forth in
the Operational Manual, including, inter alia: (a) re-vegetalization; (b) soil and
water conservation practices; and (c) construction of physical structures to
prevent erosion, promote water recharge and regulate water flows, all approved
by the Gobierno Auténomo Departamental de Santa Cruz or the Gobierno
Auténomo Departamental de Cochabamba (as the case may be) in accordance
with the provisions of the pertinent section of the Operational Manual; and the
technical assistance and Training required for the implementation and
supervision of said eligible investment; and “Watershed Management
Subprojects” means, collectively, all of such investments.

“World Bank’s Safeguards Policies” means the World Bank’s operational
policies and procedures set forth in the Association Operational Manual under
OPs/BPs 4.01, 4.04, 4.09, 4.10, 4.11, 4.12, 4.36, 4.37, 7.50 and 7.60, as said
manual is published under www.WorldBank.org/opmanual.

24
