Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized _

 

Loan Number 8345-EG

Loan Agreement

(Promoting Innovation for Inclusive Financial Access Project)

between
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

pata Apal/2 2014
Loan Number 8345-EG

LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT dated f pal /2- _, 2014, between ARAB REPUBLIC
OF EGYPT (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION

AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:

1.01.

1.02.

2.01.

2.02.

2.03.

2.04.

ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions and in
the Appendix to this Agreement.

ARTICLE II - LOAN

The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of three hundred million United States
Dollars ($300,000,000) as such amount may be converted from time to time
through a Currency Conveision in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07
of this Agreement (“the Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in
Schedule i to this Agreement (“the Project’).

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower’s Representative for
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this
Section is the Project Impiementing Entity (the Social Fund for Development).

The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. On or promptly after the Effective Date, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay
itself the amount of the Front-end Fee.

The interest payable by the Borrower on the principle amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time for each interest Period shall be at
a rate equal to the Reference Rate (as defined in paragraph 82 of the Appendix of
the General Conditicns that apply to this Loan) for the Loan Currency plus the
Variable Spread; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the
Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in accordance with the
relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
2.05.

2.06.

2.07.

2.08

-2-

The Payment Dates are January 15 and July 15 in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

(a)

(b)

(c)

The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or
(B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.

Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article [TV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.

Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

The Borrower represents that it has designated its Ministry of Finance for the
purpose of handling on behalf of the Borrower, debt service payments with
respect of the Loan.
3.01.

3.02.

4.01.

5.01.

5.02.

5.03.

ARTICLE Il - PROJECT

The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through the Project Implementing
Entity (the Social Fund for Development) in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and the Project Agreement.

Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV —- REMEDIES OF THE BANK

The additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that any
legislation, license or other legal instrument related to the establishment or
operation of the Social Fund for Development or to the implementation of its
activities under the Project has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of Social Fund for
Development to perform any of its obligations under the Project. Any suspension
based on this Section shall continue until the event (or events) which gave rise to
the suspension has (or have) ceased to exist, unless the Bank has notified the
Borrower that such right to make withdrawals has been restored.

ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

This Agreement shall become effective once the Bank has received evidence
acceptable to it that all necessary constitutional procedures have been taken by
the Borrower in accordance with the provisions of Section 9.01 of the General
Conditions.

The Additional Condition of Effectiveness is that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
has been entered into between the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity.

The Additional Legal Matter to be included in the Legal Opinion is that the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been entered into between the Borrower and the
Project Implementing Entity and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the
Project Implementing Entity in accordance with its terms.

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and eighty (180) days after
the date of this Agreement, or such later date established by the Bank. in
accordance with Section 9.04 of the General Conditions.
6.01.

6.02.

5.03.

ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

The Borrower’s Representatives are, severally, the Minister of International
Cooperation of the Borrower and the Assistant to the Minister for International,
Regional and Arab Financing Organizations of the Ministry of International
Cooperation of the Borrower.

The Borrower’s Address is:

Ministry of International Cooperation
8 Adly Street,

Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt

Facsimile:

(202) 2391-2815
(202) 2391-5167

The Bank’s Address is:

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America

Cable address: Telex: Facsimile:

INTBAFRAD 248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 64145(MCI)
-5-

AGREED at Washington DC, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.

ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
By _——
Authorized Representative

Name: Ashraf EL - Araby
Title: W)sn; eter

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By

 
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description

The objective of the Project is to expand access to finance for micro and small
enterprises in the Arab Republic of Egypt, using innovative financing mechanisms, with a
special focus on youth and women, as well as underserved regions.

The Project consists of the following part:

Line of Credit

Establishment and operation of a line of credit by the Project Implementing

Entity for the purpose of providing financing through Participating Financial Institutions
to micro and small enterprises.
SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Section I. Implementation Arrangements

A.

Institutional Arrangements

The Borrower, through the Project Implementing Entity, shall maintain and
implement the Operational Manual and the Environmental and Social
Management Framework and shall not amend, change or alter the Operational
Manual or Environmental and Social Management Framework without the
mutual agreed consent of the Borrower and the Bank.

Subsidiary Loan Agreement

To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make the proceeds
of the Loan available to the Project Implementing Entity under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement between the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity, and
on terms and conditions agreed with the Bank, which shall include, inter alia,
the following: (1) repayment of principal and payment of interest, charges and
premium in accordance with Article II of this Agreement and Article III of the
General Conditions; (ii) payment of any other charges which may be required by
the Borrower; and (iii) foreign exchange risk to be borne by the Project
Implementing Entity.

The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan. The Borrower shall not assign, amend,
abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any of its provisions
without the mutual agreed consent of the Borrower and the Bank.

Anti-Corruption Guidelines

The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to carry out the
Project in accordance with the provisions of the Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.

PFI Financing and Subprojects

The Borrower shall ensure that:

(a) the Project Implementing Entity provides PFI Financing to PFIs under
Participation Agreements; and
-§-

(b) the PFIs provide Subfinancing to MSEs for Subprojects, all on term and
conditions as set forth in the Operational Manual.

Section II. Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

A. Project Reports

l. The Borrower, through the Project Implementing Entity, shall monitor and
evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports for the Project in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08(b) of the General Conditions and on the
basis of indicators agreed with the Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the period of
one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45)
days after the end of the period covered by such report.

2. For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section (the
Completion Report) shall be furnished to the Bank not later than three months after the
Closing Date.

B. Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits

l. The Borrower, through the Project Implementing Entity, shall maintain or cause
to be maintained a financial management system in accordance with the provisions of
Section 5.09 of the General Conditions.

2. Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
cause the Project Implementing Entity to prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than
forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial
reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance acceptable to the
Borrower and the Bank.

3. The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entities to have the Financial
Statements audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General
Conditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal
year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.

Section ITI. Procurement

Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, after consultation,
procurement of goods under Subfinancing and for Subprojects and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to the
Project Agreement and in accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual.
Section IV. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. | General

l. The Borrower may, through the Project Implementing Entity, withdraw the
proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions of Article If of the
General Conditions, this Section, and such additional arrangements as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World Bank
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to
time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such
arrangements), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in
paragraph 2 below.

2. The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.

(1) Subfinancing for 299,250,000 100%
Subprojects
)

(2) Interest Rate Cap Amount due under
or Interest Rate Section 2.07 (c) of this
Collar Premium Agreement

(3) Front-End Fee 750,000 Amount due under
| Section 2.03 (c) of this
Agreement, in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of
the General Conditions.

   
  
 

  
   
   

  
 
  

Amount of the Loan
Allocated
(expressed in USD)

Percentage of
Expenditures to be
financed

     
      
 
  

             
    

  

      
     
   
 

TOTAL AMOUNT 300,000,000

B. Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

l. Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.

2. The Closing Date is December 31, 2019.
-10-

SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date (“Installment Share”). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.

   
 

  
    
      
      

Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)

   

Principal Payment Date

    

On each January 15 and July 15,
beginning July 15, 2021 through January
15, 2042

On July 15, 2042 2.14%

If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:

     

(a) To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph |
of this Schedule.

(b) Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph | of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share’’)
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
-1l-

(a) Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.

(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any ©
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs | and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.

If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.
_]2-

APPENDIX
Definitions

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.

“Environmental and Social Management Framework” means the Environmental
and Social Management Framework which is an assessment framework dated
December 17, 2013, adopted by the Project Implementing Entity for evaluation
of environmental impacts and which sets forth policies and procedures for the
screening of proposed Subprojects for potential positive and negative
environmental and social impacts, generic mitigating and monitoring measures
and the legal and institutional framework for the preparation of environmental
assessment and environment and social management plans as may be during the
implementation of the Project, including public consultations/participation
techniques to identify potential impacts, and the establishment of a grievance
redress mechanism, as said framework may be amended from time to time with
the prior concurrence of the Bank.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated March 12, 2012.

“MSE” means a micro enterprise or a small enterprise established and operating
within the territory of the Borrower, which meets the eligibility criteria agreed
with the Bank, including those contained in the Operational Manual and in the
Annex to the Project Agreement; and the term “MSEs” means, collectively all
such MSEs.

“Operational Manual” means the Project Implementing Entity’s operational
manual and guidelines dated December 4, 2013, to be followed by the Project
[Implementing Entity and used for the purposes of providing subfinancing under
this Project and which includes, inter alia, financial management guidelines; as
such Manual may be amended with the prior mutual agreement of the Bank and
of the Project Implementing Entity.

“Participation Agreement” means an agreement entered into between the Project
Implementing Entity and a Participating Financial Intermediary (PFI) for
providing PFI Financing on the terms and conditions agreed with the Bank,
including those set forth in the Operational Manual and in the Annex to the
Project Agreement and the term “Participation Agreements” means, collectively,
all such Participation Agreements.
14.

-13-

“Participating Financial Intermediary” and “PFI” means banks, NGO’s,
microfinance institutions, venture capital companies and financial leasing
companies which meet the eligibility criteria for such financial intermediary
satisfactory to the Bank, including those set forth in the Operational Manual and
in the Annex to the Project Agreement; and the terms “Participating Financial
Intermediaries” and “PFIs” means collectively all Participating Financial
Intermediaries.

‘Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers” dated January 2011.

“Project Agreement” means the agreement entered into between the Bank and the
Project Implementing Entity of even date herewith, as the same may be amended
from time to time; and such term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement.

“Project Implementing Entity” and “PIE” means the Social Fund for
Development, an entity established and operating in the territory of the Borrower
under Presidential Decree No. 40 of 1991.

“PFI Financing” means a loan made by the Project Implementing Entity to a PFI
out of the proceeds of the Loan for the purpose of providing Subfinancing
pursuant to the provisions of a Participation Agreement and in accordance with
the Operational Manual and the Project Agreement, under terms and conditions
agreed with the Bank; “PFI Financings” means, collectively, all such PFI
Financings, or means the Project Implementing Entity provides equity financing
alongside PFIs in MSEs in the case of venture capital.

“Project Implementing Unit” and “PIU” means the Unit established by PIE for
the purposes of managing, monitoring and evaluating the implementation of the
Project. .

“Subfinancing” means financing in the form of a loan, and/or equity made by a
PFI to, or in, a MSE out of the proceeds of a PFI Financing to finance goods
under a Subfinancing Agreement for a Subproject pursuant to and in accordance
with the provisions of the Operational Manual and the Project Agreement and
under terms and conditions agreed with the Bank.

“Subfinancing Agreement” means an agreement entered into between a PFI and a
MSE for carrying out a Subproject on the terms and conditions agreed with the
Bank including those set forth in the Operational Manual and referred to in the
Annex to the Project Agreement; and the term “Subfinancing Agreements”
means, collectively, all such Subfinancing Agreements.
16.

_14-

“Subproject” means an investment project (including working capital and asset
investments) to be carried out by a MSE, using financing in part from the
proceeds of a Subfinancing in accordance with the provisions of the Operational
Manual and the Project Agreement and under terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank; and the term “Subprojects” means, collectively, all such Subprojects.

‘Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.B of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make the
proceeds of the Loan available to the Project Implementing Entity for carrying
out the Project.
