Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

| OFFICIAL |
| DOCUMENTS ;
;

®,
er an a cA rept
ne ee eee ee err eee eee eS

*

LOAN NUMBER 8374-AM

Loan Agreement

(Second Community Agricultural Resource Management and Competitiveness Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

)
Dated Aut Ws o , 2014

 

 
ARMENIA (“Borrower”) and the

LOAN NUMBER 8374-AM

LOAN AGREEMENT

Agreement dated Lu per C , 2014, between the REPUBLIC OF

TERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND

DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:

1.01.

1.02.

2.02.

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.

Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.

ARTICLE II — LOAN

The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of twenty three million United States Dollars
(US$ 23,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement (“Project”).

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.

The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to
the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread ; provided, that upon
a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest
payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be
determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General
Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan
Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty
days, then the interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in
Section 3.02 (e) of the General Conditions.

The Payment Dates are February | and August 1, in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

8;
2.07.

3.01.

3.02.

4.01.

(a)

(b)

The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the
interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or
vice versa; or (B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a
Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference
Rate.

Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in the
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.

ARTICLE IIT —- PROJECT

The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall carry out the Project through the Ministry of Agriculture (hereinafter
“MoA”) in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.

Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS

The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:

(a)

(b)

The Financing Agreement has been executed and delivered and all conditions
precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals
thereunder, except only the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement have been
fulfilled.

The Project Operational Manual (including the annexes for the Community Fund
financing and Targeted Sub-Project Grants under Part I (b) and II (a) of the
Project), acceptable to the Bank, has been approved by the Bank and adopted by
the Borrower.

-2-
5.03.

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and eighty (180) days after the date
of this Agreement. ,

ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance.

The Borrower’s Address is:

Ministry of Finance

1 Melik-Adamyan Street
Yerevan 0010

Republic of Armenia

Facsimile:

374 60700358

The Bank’s Address is:

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America

Cable: Telex: Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 248423 (MCI) 1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 64145 (MCI)
AGREED at Yerevan, Armenia, as of the day and year first above written.

REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA

By

Authorized Representative

Name: (a < Chackolrwar
Title: LU Le SHEL of Lyauce

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By

     

Authorized Representative

Name: Seals — ALyebel fappé

Title: Cn A- Maye

-4.
SCHEDULE 1

Project Description

The objectives of the Project are to: (i) improve productivity and sustainability of pasture
and livestock systems in targeted communities; and (ii) increase the marketed production from
selected livestock and high value agri-food value chains.

The Project consists of the following parts:

Part I. Community Pasture/Livestock Management System

Carrying out a program of activities to strengthen the capacity, knowledge, and
involvement of Pasture User Cooperatives (PUCs), including:

(a)

(b

nme”

(c)

(d)

Development of sustainable Pasture Management and Livestock Development Plans
(PMLDPs) by the Community Pasture Management and Livestock Development
Committees (CPMLDCs), (supported by Marz Support Teams and technical experts),
based on participatory technical pasture and fodder assessments.

Provision of Community Fund financing to implement all necessary activities
identified in the PMLDPs.

Provision of training and mobilization activities targeting women and rural youth to
(i) enhance their participation in the PUCs and communal decision making-processes
around livestock and pasture management, and (ii) encourage women and youth in
the development of food business.

Provision of support to the APIU component coordinators and the Marz coordinators
in the areas of coordination, supervision, communication and outreach for activities
under this Part | of the Project.

Part I. Value Chain Development

(a)

(b)

(c)

Provision of Targeted Sub-Project Grants for the implementation of sub-projects
detailed in business plans aiming to meet domestic demand and access international
market opportunities, addressing the bottlenecks of the food value chains of fodder-
based milk and meat, processed fruits and vegetables.

Carrying out of a survey of food business operators (FBOs) to provide inter-alia, a
data base of FBOs, including capacity, product range, certifications, types of business
linkages, and food safety measures.

Support to the Borrower through the financing of prioritization workshops, publicity,
training, information sessions to FBOs, and the operations of a small secretariat to
manage the Targeted Sub-Project Grants, including, technical review of proposals,
submission of applications to the approval committee (which includes Ministry of

-5-
Agriculture staff and technical experts), monitor progress of sub-projects’
implementation, and the implementation of the corresponding impact assessments.

Part III. Strengthening Public Sector Institutions

Provision of capacity building activities for public sector institutions to facilitate business
development and market access in selected value chains supported under Parts | and II of
the Project. Said activities to include:

(a)

(b)

(d)

(e)

Financing animal health services, including: (i) the mobilization, training, and
equipping of around twenty (20) community veterinarians (CVs), and (ii) the
construction and equipment of four regional-level Veterinary Service Centers (VSCs)
to be operated by the CVs.

Financing food safety activities to: (i) strengthen the capacity of food safety
institutions for inspection and regulation, (ii) strengthen and support State Service for
Food Safety (SSFS) laboratories, and (iii) provide additional equipment for
vaccination programs undertaken by the Ministry of Agriculture’s Center for
Veterinary, Food Safety and Phytosanitary Services (SNCO).

Financing the seeds and seedling development program of the Scientific Center of
Vegetable and Industrial Crops (SCVIC), including civil works and the provision of
equipment aiming to improve the production of seeds and seedlings.

Financing of the introduction of Good Agricultural Practices (GAP) through, inter-
alia: (i) the carrying out of a workshop with advisors and stakeholders on GAP
concepts, (ii) the carrying out of farmer surveys by the Republican Agriculture
Support Center (RASC), (iii) the elaboration and publication of three selected
agricultural practices guidelines, (iv) the training of advisors on content of guidelines,
(v) the dissemination of guidelines to farmers, and (vi) the support to the
Agrochemical Service State Non-Commercial Organization to improve its capacity to
proper soil analysis.

Provision of support to the APIU component coordinator in the areas of coordination,
supervision, communication and outreach, for activities under this Part II] of the
Project.

Part IV. Project Coordination and Management

Support to the APIU in the areas of overall Project coordination, supervision, financial
management, procurement, communication and outreach, supervision of implementation
of environmental and social Safeguards Instruments, monitoring and evaluation including
through the provision of technical assistance, training, incremental operating costs, costs
of impact assessments including Project evaluations, and audit.

-6-
SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Section I. Implementation Arrangements

A.

l.

Institutional Arrangements

Agriculture Projects Implementation Unit

In order to ensure proper and efficient implementation of the Project, the Borrower shall
maintain, at all times during Project implementation, the Agriculture Projects
Implementation Unit State Agency (APIU) within the Ministry of Agriculture, with a
mandate, staffing and other resources and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank. To
this end, the APIU shall: (a) be comprised of qualified and competent staff in adequate
numbers; including a core group of technical, administrative, and support staff; (b) be
responsible for day to day Project coordination and implementation, including: (i) create
and maintain a small secretariat in charge of the processing of Targeted Sub-Project
Grants under Part II of the Project; (ii) carry out Project financial management and
procurement activities all satisfactory to the Bank; (iii) ensure compliance with Safeguard
Instruments for Project activities; (iv) monitor and evaluate Project activities and
preparing Project progress reports and monitoring and evaluation reports; and (v) hire and
thereafter maintain, at all times during Project implementation or as agreed with the
Bank, an environmental/social specialist and a monitoring/evaluation specialist, whose
qualifications, experience, and terms of reference shall be acceptable to the Bank.

Project Operational Manual:

2.1. The Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to
the Bank, and furnish to the Bank, a proposed implementation manual for the Project
(“Project Operational Manual”) containing detailed: (a) implementation, procedures and
arrangements for general Project activities, including grievance redress mechanisms, as
well as the requirements, criteria, and decision making processes for the selection of the
Community Fund financing and Targeted Sub-Project Grants ; and (b) administrative,
financial management, procurement; accounting; safeguards, monitoring and evaluation
procedures and arrangements for the Project. Such Project Operational Manual shall
include specific annexes related to the Community Fund financing and Targeted Sub-
Project Grants, which form an integral part of said manual. The Project Operational
Manual shall be adopted by the Borrower after its approval by the Bank.

2.2. For purposes of the carrying out of the activities related to the Community Fund
financing and Targeted Sub-Project Grants under Part I (b) and II (a) of the Project, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for approval, a detailed proposal for the Project
Operational annexes including the design and implementation of corresponding activities.
Upon approval by the Bank of the detailed proposal, the Borrower shall prepare in
accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, the Project Operational
annexes for the Community Fund financing and the Targeted Sub-Project Grants,
respectively, containing detailed: (A) technical, (B) administrative, (C) procurement,

-7-
(D) environmental and social, (E) financial and accounting; and (F) monitoring and
evaluation procedures and arrangements, as applicable. Said manuals to further include,
inter alia, (i) description of implementation arrangements and legal agreements, if
applicable, as well as the rules, methods, guidelines, requirements, eligibility criteria,
decision making processes for the selection of activities and their respective financing,
including grievance mechanisms; (ii) flow of funds and management; and (ili) the
mechanisms for verification of compliance with the provision of the respective
financing/Grants.

2.3. The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Project Operational
Manual; and shall not assign, amend, abrogate, or waive, or permit to be assigned,
amended, abrogated, or waived, the aforementioned manual, or any provision thereof,
without the prior written agreement of the Bank.

2.4. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event of any inconsistency between the
provisions of the Project Operational Manual and those of the Loan Agreement, the
provisions of the Loan Agreement shall prevail.

2.5. The Borrower shall establish and implement, throughout the Project implementation,
an easily accessible grievance redress mechanism, acceptable to the Bank, to address
feedback and grievances relating to the Project.

Anti-Corruption

The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.

Community Fund Sub-projects / Targeted Sub-Projects

The Borrower shall: (a) appraise, review, approve, and monitor the Community Fund
Sub-projects and Targeted Sub-Projects; and (b) make the respective Community Fund
financing available for implementation of PLMPDs to benefit selected Community Fund
Beneficiaries, and issue the Targeted Sub-Project Grants to selected Targeted Sub-Project
Beneficiaries, all in accordance with eligibility criteria and procedures set forth in the
Project Operational Manual and in this Section I.C.

Except as the Bank may otherwise agree in writing, no proposed Community Fund Sub-
project and Targeted Sub-Project shall be eligible for financing under Part | (b) and/or
Part II (a) of the Project unless the Borrower has determined that said Sub-Project
satisfies the following eligibility criteria and such additional criteria as may be specified
in the Project Operational Manual:

(a) the proposed Community Fund Sub-project/Targeted Grant Sub-Project is
economically, financially and technically feasible, environmentally sound, and to
be carried out by eligible Beneficiaries in selected areas of the Borrower’s
territory;
(b) the proposed Community Fund Sub-project/Targeted Sub-Project consists of
specific development activities under Part I (b) and II (a) of the Project,
respectively, and further elaborated in the Project Operational Manual and
complies with all applicable laws and regulations of the Borrower;

(c) the proposed Community Fund Sub-project/Targeted Sub-Project does not
involve land acquisition (permanent or temporary) or physical resettlement,
satisfies the eligibility criteria for safeguards specified in the Project Operational
Manual, and is in compliance with the provisions of the safeguards frameworks
and other safeguards documents required; and

(d) if, on the basis of the environmental screening conducted for the Community
Fund Sub-project/Targeted Sub-Project pursuant to the Project Operational
Manual, an EMP and/or RAP shall be required, such EMP and/or RAP shall have
been prepared pursuant to the EMF and the RPF and shall have been approved by
the Bank.

For purposes of implementation of activities under Part I (b) of the Project, from the
proceeds of the Loan, a Community Fund will be available to finance activities included
in the approved PLMPDs and implemented directly by the APIU with the participation of
the PUCs and communities.

For purposes of implementation of activities under Part II (a) of the Project, the Borrower
shall make available from the proceeds of the Loan, Targeted Sub-Project Grants to
selected Beneficiaries under a Grant Agreement with the respective Beneficiary on terms
and conditions approved by the Bank and outlined in the Project Operational Manual,
which shall include terms through which the Borrower shall obtain rights adequate to
protect its interests and those of the Bank, including the right to: (i) suspend or terminate
the right of the Beneficiary to use the proceeds of the Grant; or (ii) obtain a refund of all
or any part of the amount of the Grant then withdrawn, upon the Beneficiary’s failure to
perform any of its obligations under the Grant Agreement.

The Borrower shall require each Beneficiary to:

(1) carry out its Community Fund Sub-Project or Targeted Sub-Project, as
applicable, with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound
technical, economic, financial, managerial, environmental and social standards
and practices satisfactory to the Bank, including in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to recipients of financing
proceeds other than the Borrower;

(11) implement EMPs and RAPs when applicable;

(iii) | provide, promptly as needed, the resources required for the purpose of carrying
out the Sub-Projects;
(iv)

(v)

(vi)

(vil)

(viii)

procure the goods, works and services to be financed out of the Grant in
accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, (in the case of the Targeted
Sub-Project Beneficiary);

maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate in
accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the progress of the
Community Fund Sub-Project or the Targeted Sub-Project, as applicable, and the
achievement of its objectives;

(A) maintain a financial management system and prepare financial statements in
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the
Bank, both in a manner adequate to reflect the operations, resources and
expenditures related to Community Fund Sub-Project or the Targeted Sub-
Project; and (B) at the Bank’s or the Borrower’s request, have such financial
statements audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance
with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, and
promptly furnish the statements as so audited to the Borrower and the Bank;

enable the Borrower and the Bank to inspect Community Fund Sub-Project or the
Targeted Sub-Project, its operation and any relevant records and documents; and

prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the Bank all such information as the
Borrower or the Bank shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing.

The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each Grant Agreement in such manner as to
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend,
abrogate or waive any Grant Agreement or any of its provisions.

Safeguards

The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Safeguard Frameworks
and all Safeguard Documents. To this end, the Borrower shall take the following
measures:

(a)

(b)

if any activities included in the Project, pursuant to the ESMF, require the
carrying out of an EMP, no such activities shall be implemented unless and until:

(1) an EMP for such activities has been: (A) prepared, in accordance with
the ESMF and furnished to the Bank as part of the Annual Work Plan;
(B) disclosed locally as required by the ESMF; and (C) approved by the
Bank and publicly disclosed; and

if any activities included in the Project would, pursuant to the RPF, require the
carrying out of a RAP, no such activities shall be implemented unless and until:

-10-
(i) a RAP for such activities has been: (A) prepared in accordance with the
requirements of the RPF and furnished to the Bank; (B) disclosed as
required by the RPF; and (C) approved by the Bank; and

(ii) (A) all measures required to be taken under said RAP prior to the
initiation of said activities have been taken, including, without limitation
to the above, providing funds for resettlement compensation when and if
required under a RAP; (B) a report, in form and substance satisfactory to
the Bank, on the status of compliance with the requirements of said RAP
has been prepared and furnished to the Bank; and (C) the Bank has
confirmed that said activities may be commenced.

2. Without limitation upon its other reporting obligations under this Agreement, the
Borrower shall regularly collect, compile and submit to the Bank upon request, reports, in
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, on the status of compliance with the
Safeguard Instruments, as appropriate:

(a) measures taken in furtherance of such Safeguard Instruments;

(b) conditions, if any, which interfere or threaten to interfere with the smooth
implementation of such Safeguard Instruments; and

(c) remedial measures taken or required to be taken to address such conditions.

3. The Borrower shall afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to review the reports
prepared under paragraph 2 of this Part C, and thereafter shall carry out or cause to be
carried out, with due diligence, all remedial measures agreed with the Bank so as to
ensure the proper implementation of the Project in accordance with the Safeguard
Instruments.

Section II. Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

A. Project Reports

l. The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project
Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and
on the basis of indicators acceptable to the Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the
period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than one
month after the end of the period covered by such report.

2. For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the execution of

the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall be furnished to the
Bank not later than the Closing Date.

-1|-
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits

The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions.

Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare
and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar
semester, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the semester, in
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.

The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the Financial
Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six
months after the end of such period.

Section III, Procurement

General

Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. All goods, works and non-consulting
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.

Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines,
and with the provisions of this Section.

Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, refer to
the corresponding method described in Sections II and II] of the Procurement Guidelines,
or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.

Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services

International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2
below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.

Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. The
following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used for
procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for those contracts specified in
the Procurement Plan:

-12-
Procurement Method

(a) National Competitive Bidding of the Borrower may be used for procurement of
goods, works and non-consulting services for the Project, provided that the
following provisions are complied with:

(1) entities in which the Republic of Armenia owns a majority
shareholding shall not be invited to participate in tenders for the
Government unless they are and can be shown to be legally and
financially autonomous and operate under commercial law,

(11) post-qualification criteria shall only pertain to past contract
performance, financial, managerial and technical capabilities of
bidders;

(iii) joint venture partners shall be jointly and severally liable for their
obligations;

(iv) estimated contract prices shall not be advertised;
(v) no bids shall be rejected at bid opening;

(vi) no bids shall be rejected solely because they exceed the estimated price.
Bids can be cancelled and new bids invited, only if the conditions of
clause 2.61- 2.64 of the Procurement Guidelines are met;

(vii) all bid evaluation criteria shall be quantifiable in monetary terms or
expressed as a pass/fail criteria; and

(viii) advance Bank’s approval is required for any modifications in the
contract scope/conditions during implementation.

 

(c) Framework Agreement
(d Direct Contracting
(f) Community Participation in Procurement

C. Particular Methods of Selection of Consultants’ Services

1. Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality
and Cost-based Selection.

2. Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following methods,

other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for procurement of
consultants’ services for those contracts which are specified in the Procurement Plan:

-|3-
 
   

 
 
    
   
 
  
  

Selection Method

(a Quality-based Selection
(b) Fixed-Budget Selection

  
   
   

ron

(f) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.1 through 5.6 of the Consultants Guidelines

for the Selection of Individual Consultants
D. Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s
Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.

-14-
Section IV. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. General

l. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions
of Article Il of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World Bank
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by
the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to

_ finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.

2. The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible
Expenditures in each Category.

   
  
 
  

 

Amount of the Loan
Allocated
expressed in USD

4,800,000

 
  

Percentage of Expenditures
to be financed

Category

   
  
   

    

(1) Goods, works, non-
consulting services,
consultants’ services, Training
and Incremental Operating
Costs under the Project
(except for activities under
Part I (b) and Part Il (a) of the
Project.
(2) Community Fund
financing and Targeted Sub-
Project Grants under Part I (b)
and Part II (a) of the Project.

 
   
    
 
   
        
   
 

    

   
 
   

18,142,500 100% of the agreed amounts

   
   
   
  

    

57,500

 

Amount payable pursuant to
Section 2.03 of this
Agreement

      

B. Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

1. Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made for
payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.

2. The Closing Date is May 31, 2020.

-15-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule

l. The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment
Date (“Installment Share”). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b)
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule,

to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date Installment Share
Expressed as a Percentage
3.33%

On each February! and August |
3.43%

   
 

          

     
 

         

Beginning August 1, 2024,through August 1, 2038

On February 1, 2039

2. If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:

(a) To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance
as of such date in accordance with paragraph | of this Schedule.

(b) Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph | of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original
Installment Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.

3. (a) Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.

-16-
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of
such billing system.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.

If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the

provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.

-|7-
10.

APPENDIX
Definitions

“Agrochemical Service State Non-Commercial Organization” means the Borrower’s
non-commercial entity that provides agrochemical services, under the oversight of the
MoA.

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”,
dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.

“APIU” means the Borrower’s Agriculture Projects Implementation Unit, as referred to
in Section I.A.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement in charge of general coordination,
preparation, implementation and monitoring and evaluation of Project activities.

“Beneficiary” means either individuals or groups that will benefit from activities
implemented through the Community Fund financing, or individuals or groups that will
benefit from Targeted Sub-Project Grants; and “Beneficiaries” means, collectively, more
than one Beneficiary.

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.

“Community Pasture Management and Livestock Development Committee” or
“CPMLDC” means the committee established in each selected community, in charge of
the development of the PMLDPs.

“Community Fund” means funds to be allocated for the implementation of activities
under approved PLMDPs under Part | (b) of the Project out of the proceeds of the Loan,
pursuant to eligibility criteria, principles and procedures and implementation
arrangements set forth in the Project Operational Manual.

“Community Fund Sub-Project” means a set of activities within the approved PLMDPs to
be financed under Part I (b) of the Project.

“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers”
dated January 2011.

“Environmental Management Plan” and “EMP” means an environmental management
plan for the respective Sub-Project to be prepared and implemented in accordance with
the ESMF and pursuant to the provisions of Section I. E. of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement; and “EMPs” means, collectively, more than one EMP.

“Environmental and Social Management Framework” and “ESMF” each means the
Borrower’s framework entitled “Environmental and Social Management Framework”,
disclosed in the Borrower’s territory on March 14, 2014 and re-disclosed on March 26,
2014, and at the Bank’s /nfoshop on March 26, 2014, detailing: (a) the measures to be

-|8-
18.

20.

taken during the implementation and operation of the Project to eliminate or offset
adverse environmental and social impacts, or to reduce them to acceptable levels; and (b)
the actions needed to implement these measures, including monitoring and institution
strengthening.

“Financing Agreement” means the agreement for the Project between the Republic of
Armenia and the International Development Association, dated the same date as this
Agreement, as such agreement may be amended from time to time. “Financing
Agreement” includes all appendices, schedules and agreements supplemental to the
Financing Agreement.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.

“Grant(s)” means financing under Part II (a) of the Project, referred to in Schedule I to
this Agreement, for Targeted Sub-Projects selected and approved in accordance with
Section I.D of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and the Project Operational Manual.

“Grant Agreement” means each agreement entered into between the Borrower and a
Beneficiary of the Targeted Sub-Project, pursuant to which a Grant shall be made by the
Borrower, to such Beneficiary.

“Incremental Operating Costs” means expenditures (other than those for consultants’
services, non-consultant services) incurred by the Borrower or the PIU in connection with
the implementation of the Project, all which would not have been incurred absent the
Project, including inter-alia: (i) maintenance and operation of equipment and vehicles
procured or used for the management of the Project: (ii) salaries paid to staff hired for the
purposes of the Project and pertinent costs of their health insurance premiums, (iii) travel
costs and per diems, (iv) consumables office supplies, (v) communication, printing and
publications, and (vi) costs of translation and interpretation, (vii) audit of the project, and
(viil) office rent; but excluding salaries of members of the Borrower’s civil service; all
based on annual budgets acceptable to the Bank.

“MoA” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Agriculture or its legal successor thereto.

“Pasture Management and Livestock Development Plans” or “PMLDPs” means the plans
developed by the CPMLDC aiming to improve pasture management, livestock, and
infrastructure, to be financed through Community Fund financing under Part I (b) of the
Project.

“Pasture User Cooperatives” or “PUCs” means the community-based groups established
as “cooperatives” under Armenian law, to which the community farmers/users of the land
transfer their rights and obligations of the management of land/pastures to improve
productivity.

“Pest Management Plan” and “PMP” means the Borrower’s pest management plan for
the Project, if required, setting out the measures to be taken for the development and

-|9-
21.

22.

23.

24.

25.

26.

27,

28.

29.

30.

31.

implementation of integrated pest management in the course of Project implementation,
as the same may be modified from time to time with the prior written agreement of the
Bank, and such term includes any schedules or annexes to such plan.

“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and
Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers” dated January 2011.

“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, dated March
31, 2014 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph
1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in
accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.

“Project Operational Manual” means the manual for the Project (including the Sub-
Manual for Community Fund financing and Targeted Sub-Project Grants) to be updated
and adopted in accordance with the provisions of Section I. A. 2 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.

“Republican Agriculture Support Center” or “RASC” means the Borrower’s closed joint
stock company in charge of providing advisory services and training to regional
agriculture centers and farmers.

“Resettlement Action Plan” and “RAP” each means a resettlement action plan to be
prepared and implemented in accordance with the RPF and pursuant to the provisions of
Schedule II Section I E to this Agreement; and “RAPs” means more than one such RAP.

“Resettlement Policy Framework” and “RPF” each means the Borrower’s framework
entitled “Resettlement Policy Framework”, disclosed in the Borrower’s territory on
March 14, 2014 and re-disclosed on March 26, 2014 and at the Bank’s Jnfoshop on on
March 26, 2014 containing the guidelines, procedures, timetables and other specifications
for the provision of compensation, rehabilitation and resettlement assistance for the
project affected people.

“Safeguard Documents” means any EMP, RAP or other supplemental social and
environmental safeguard document as required under the terms of the Safeguard
Frameworks.

“Safeguard Frameworks” means, collectively, the ESMF, PMP, and the RPF.

“Safeguards Instruments” means, collectively, the Safeguards Frameworks and the
Safeguards Documents.

“Scientific Center of Vegetable and Industrial Crops” or “SC VIC” means the Borrower's
non-commercial entity established with the mandate of providing services such as:
selection of crops, seed breeding, cultivation methods, etc.

““Sub-Project” means either (i) a set of activities under approved PLMDPs to be carried
out by APIU under Part I (b) of the Project, or (ii) a specific development project to be

-20-
32.

33.

34.

carried out by a Beneficiary under Part II (a) of the Project; ; and “Sub-Projects” means
more than one Sub-Project.

“Targeted Sub-Project” means the specific development project to be carried out under
Part II (a) of the Project.

“Targeted Sub-Project Grants” means funds to be provided to selected Beneficiaries
under Part II (a) of the Project out of the proceeds of the Loan, pursuant to eligibility
criteria, principles and procedures and implementation arrangements set forth in the
Project Operational Manual.

“Training” means the expenses incurred by the Borrower or the APIU in connection with
study tours, training courses, seminars, workshops and other training-related activities
under the Project including travel costs and per diem for participants, trainers and
trainees, trainers’ fees, rental of training facilities, preparation and reproduction of
training materials and other activities incidental to the preparation and implementation of
training activities, and other expenses as agreed with the Bank, all based on annual
budgets acceptable to the Bank.

-2|-
