Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

 

LOAN NUMBER 8412-TR

Loan Agreement

(Sustaining Shared Growth Development Policy Loan)
between
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECON STRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated AUGUST 22 2014
LOAN NUMBER 8412-TR
LOAN AGREEMENT

Agreement dated AUGUST 22 , 2014, entered into between

REPUBLIC OF TURKEY (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing
financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The
Bank has decided to provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions
which the Borrower has already taken under the Program and which are described in
Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (b) the Borrower’s maintenance of an
adequate macroeconomic policy framework. The Borrower and the Bank therefore
hereby agree as follows:

1.01.

1.02.

2.01.

2.02.

2.03.

2.04,

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IT — LOAN

The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of three hundred sixty-seven million
and four hundred thousand Euros (EUR 367,400,000), as such amount may be
converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with
the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement (“Loan”).

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program |

in accordance with Section II of Schedule | to this Agreement.

The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee
not later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date.

The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any

_ amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-

et en rE RAT! op EYE te

AER YRRR ER APOC A AE AI TREN

Wot an pay wes

Se PAPE: Em Am RRR AAS ADP TDI TE NEM E
2.05.

2.06.

2.07.

2.08.

3.01,

~

payment continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by
the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.

The Payment Dates are February | and August 1 in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

(a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (ii1) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.

(b) Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.

Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 of Section II of the Appendix to this
Agreement and relating to Cooperation and Consultation), the Borrower shail
promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this
Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request.

ARTICLE Ill — PROGRAM

The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.
To this end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions:
4.01.

5.02.

(a)

(b)

(c)

the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of
either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the
Program;

prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Bank for its review and comment, a report on the progress achteved in
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request; and

without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
Section, the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any
proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Loan which
would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the
Program or any action taken under the Program, including any action
specified in Section I of Schedule | to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK

The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that a
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a
significant part of it, will be carried out.

ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that
the Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out
the Program and with the adequacy of the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy
framework.

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred twenty (120) days after the
date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. The Borrower’s Representative is the Undersecretary of Treasury.
6.02. The Borrower’s Address is:

Basbakanlik

Hazine Mustesarligi —
Inonu Bulvari No. 36
Emek — Ankara
Turkey

Facsimile:
(312) 204-7366
6.03. The Bank’s Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America

Cable address: Telex: Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-639 |
Washington, D.C. 64145(MCI)
AGREEDat ANKARA

above written.

, ~UVURKEY  ,as of the day and year first

REPUBLIC OF TURKEY

By

    

Authorized Representative

Name: hal an Tolkac
Jor

Title:

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By-

Authorized Representative
Name: 2 ar Vly > wear

Title:

Le ete pape IOI amy NN MT? AORTA

BIL. PINAR A Bon RB NOY NOAA TANT SUS MEN ORCI RS Que py aly RU RA RIMES tceHBy Peba yt  atie Mg RET

pment aintye

Merger EM Eom mt RF a Ne STM AI NINN ANAS mani REA
SCHEDULE 1

Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds

Section I. Actions under the Program

The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following:

The Borrower has fully operationalized the Central Registration System
(“MERSIS”) by the end of 2013, by transferring data from 238 separate trade
registries to the central database, which data is accessible to government
institutions and the MERSIS system permits companies to complete ail
transactions related to company establishment (including payments) online.

The Borrower’s Public Oversight Authority has published in the Official Gazette
the full set of 37 Turkish Standards on Auditing foreseen in the Commercial
Code, which standards are in line with the international standards on auditing.
The Borrower also has published the Council of Ministers Decree 2014/5973 in
Official Gazette No. 28941 on March 14, 2014, which reduced the thresholds for
independent audit, thereby increasing the number of companies subject to
independent audit.

The Borrower has adopted Capital Markets Secondary Legislation to implement
the Capital Markets Law, which Capital Markets Secondary Legislation will:
enable the creation of a new securities exchange that will replace the existing
Istanbul Stock Exchange, merge the exchange with the gold and derivatives
exchanges, introduce a new prospectus review process aligned with European
Union requirements, enhance investor protection (including through improved
disclosure requirements and improved corporate governance principles), ard
introduce new corporate bonds and mutual funds regulations, as well as new
capital markets instruments (including different types of sukuks and asset backed
securities),

The Borrower’s High Planning Council has approved on May 6, 2014 and has
published in Official Gazette No. 29015 on May 30, 2014, the National
Employment Strategy 2014-2023, which aims to put in place a policy framework
to address constraints to hiring and to further promote employment, particularly
for vulnerable groups.

The Risk Center of the Banks Association of Turkey became fully operational in
June 2013, which aims to improve the depth of credit information belonging to
firms and individuals, thereby providing cost effective systematic information on
potential borrowers, laying the basis for orderly growth of the financial services
industry and promoting management of credit risk.
The Borrower has published Consumer Protection Law No. 6502 in Official
Gazette No. 28835 on November 28, 2013, which aims to: increase transparency
and awareness about the financial services, improve disclosure requirements,
promote competition in the marketplace, prevent fraud and eliminate unfair
practices. The Borrower published Payment and Securities Settlement Systems,

Payment Services and Electronic Money Institutions Law No. 6493 in Official

Gazette No. 28690 on June 27, 2013, which sets out the principles and
procedures applicable to: payment and securities settlement systems, payment
services, payment institutions and electronic money institutions.

The Borrower has published Regulation on Principles for Establishment and
Operations of Financial Leasing, Factoring and Finance Companies in Official
Gazette No. 28627 on April 24, 2013, which sets out the principles and
conditions for establishment and operation of leasing, factoring and financing
companies. The Borrower also has published Regulation on Accounting Practices
and Financial Statements for Leasing, Factoring and Financing Companies in
Official Gazette No. 28861 on December 24, 2013, which sets out: the principles
of accounting, financial statements to be disclosed and provisioning
requirements.

The Borrower has published Electricity Market Law No. 6446 in Official Gazette

No. 28603 on March 30, 2013, which aims to ensure the development ofa
financially sound, stable and transparent electricity market Operating in a
competitive environment and covers electricity generation, transmission,
distribution, wholesale and retail sale, import, export and market operation
activities; and the rights and obligations of all real persons and legal entities
involved in these activities. The Borrower’s energy regulator starting from May
2013 has issued Electricity Market Secondary Regulations, which are intended to
provide a modern legal framework for the electricity market.

The Borrower has initiated the establishment of an independent energy market
operation corporation (EPIAS) with the approval of the articles of association of
EPIAS by EMRA’s Board in September 2013 and by the Borrower’s High
Planning Council in March 2014 (with Tiirkiye Elektrik fletim A.S. as a
shareholder of EPIAS).

The Borrower has published Liberalization of Turkish Railway Transportation
Law No. 6461 in Official Gazette No. 28634 on May 1, 2013, which permits
qualified train operators to be licensed to operate in Turkey and to have non-
discriminatory access to use the railway infrastructure in Turkey, and has
conducted consultations on secondary legislation for implementation of said law.

MSU +

7 Wa ee ote

Posgennanl sae?

aL TIRANA NCD SR OUR NEAT Ce iP BWM TERT EPA ME a Skea ATTA ICN AS,

ape pee

Pee gk

hepeasen EON IPA OE RR ANE RY ATTN AICI NEPA IG
ALDER OTT PIES AN Uy wn . x “I 7

1576 A Rg NATE PG ORT HE TAD I

" ePRbannege AeA a BEEN eh SY PL AERIS ig BQN ETH UE ADE
Section Hi. Availability of Loan Proceeds

A.

General

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of this Section.

Allocation of Loan Amounts
The Loan is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche, from which the Borrower

may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds. The allocation of the amounts of
the Loan to this end is set out in the table below:

    
  
    

 
 
  

Amount of the Loan Allocated
(expressed in Euro)

  

Allocations

   

| Single Withdrawal Tranche 367,400,000

TOTAL AMOUNT

Payment of Front-end Fee

  

367,400,000

No withdrawal shall be made from the Loan Account until the Bank has received
payment in full of the Front-end Fee.

Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions
No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank
is satisfied: (a) with the Program being carried out by the Borrower; and (b) with

the adequacy of the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework.

Deposits of Loan Amounts

_ Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:

1. all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank
into an account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank;
and

2. the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the

Loan into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the
Borrower’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the
Bank.
Excluded Expenditures

The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used to
finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines at any time that an
amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund an amount equal
to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon
such request shall be cancelled.

Closing Date. The Closing Date is June 30, 2015.

 

CENCE ARE RE RE RUHR Ee NS BGI A TS AL eT

PEAR AMM Ire

 

z
i
:
E
5
5
:.

See teense ares BRUIT th!
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule

1. The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan: payable on each Principal
Payment Date (“Installment Share”). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower: on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any

_ amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.

   
 
   

  
 

Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)

  

Principal Payment Date

    
  

On each February | and August |

  

Beginning February 1, 2023
through February 1, 2029

On August 1, 2029

2. If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:

     

(a) To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph |
of this Schedule.

(b) Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph | of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”)
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any

-10-
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies. |

(a) Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.

(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.

If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.

-ll-

POTION ERO ET PE, RG

ta cht wea ae SRAM UFR AE ARR tat

ATEN Ler INE ARON DIEM MEE Oe tae a area te TM

Set ARIE

RFF eakrY BREE EA NSIS NRE tae may

Se eke Ae Hen ata Arad
l.

APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

“Capital Markets Law” means Capital Markets Law No. 6362 published in the
Official Gazette No. 28513 dated December 30, 2012.

“Capital Markets Secondary Legislation” means, collectively:

(a)

(b)

(c)

GD)

(e)

(f)

(g)

(h)

By-law on Principles of Establishment, Operations, Work, and Audit of
the Exchanges, and Market Operators published in the Official Gazette
No, 28712 dated July 19, 2013;

Communique on Prospectus and Issuing Certificate published in the
Official Gazette No. 28685 dated June 22, 2013;

Communique on Debt Instruments published in the Official Gazette No.
28670 dated June 7, 2013;

Communique on the Principles Regarding the Mutual Funds published in
the Official Gazette No. 28702 and dated July 9, 2013;

Communique on Sukuk (Lease Certificates) published in the Official
Gazette No. 28670 dated June 7, 2013; |

Communique on Asset Backed Securities published in the Official
Gazette No. 28889 dated January 21, 2014;

Communique on Corporate Governance published in the Official Gazette
No. 28871 dated January 3, 2014; and

Communique on Material Events in Public Disclosure published in the

Official Gazette No. 28891 dated January 23, 2014.

“Commercial Code” means the Borrower’s Commercial Code No. 6102
published in the Official Gazette on February 14, 2011, and which was amended
by Law No. 6335 published in the Official Gazette on June 30, 2012, and became
effective on July 1, 2012.

“Electricity Market Supporting Regulations” means, collectively:

(a)

(b)

Regulation on the Technical Evaluation of the Solar Energy License
Applications published in Official Gazette No. 28664 on June 1, 2013;

Regulation on the Certification and the Support of Renewable Energy
Resources published in Official Gazette No. 28782 on October 1, 2013;

-12-
(c)

(d)

(e)

(f)

(g)
(h)
(i)

0)

Electricity Market License Regulation published in Official Gazette No.
28809 on November 2, 2013;

Regulation on the Precautions for the Electricity Distribution and Supply
Licenses published in Official Gazette No. 28726 on August 2, 2013;

Regulation on Unlicensed Production of Electricity on the Electricity
Market published in Official Gazette No. 28783 on October 2, 2013;

Regulation on the Competition on: the Pre-License Applications for
Energy Production Facilities from Wind and Solar Energy published in
Official Gazette No. 28843 on December 6, 2013;

Regulation on Connections and System Use in the Electricity Market

published in Official Gazette No. 28896 on January 28, 2014;

Regulation on Activities of the Organized Industrial Zones published in
Official Gazette No. 28941 on March 14, 2014;

Regulation on the Electricity Market Consumer Services published in
Official Gazette No. 28994 on May 8, 2014; and

A number of revisions in regulations relating to demand estimations,
market balancing, system supply security, distribution, audits, electricity
system. oe

“EMRA” means the Borrower’s Energy Market Regulatory Authority.

“EPIAS” means Enerji Piyasalari Isletme Anonim Sirketi, the new energy
exchange being established by the Borrower.

“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure:

(a)

(b)

for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit,
or grant; :

for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the
Borrower:

-13-

Soy RNS

RYE TAI IE ET IMC RS IES a A AES BS RNC Otay

OSLO eyh AIM MINER EPL ce Om pee ot ate MeUp ce TIMOR, fo08h eat camer
(c)

(d)

(e)

(f)

Group | Sub-group _| Description of Item

Alcoholic beverages

Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco
refuse

Tobacco, manufactured (whether or
not containing tobacco substitutes
Radioactive and associated materials
Pearls, precious and semiprecious
stones, unworked or worked

718 718.7 | Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof:
fuel elements (cartridges), non-

° irradiated, for nuclear reactors

728 728.43 | Tobacco processing machine

897 897.3 | Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum
group metals (except watches and
watch cases) and goldsmiths’ or
silversmiths’ wares (including set
gems

Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold
ores and concentrates

121

—
bo

122

525
667

971

for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
consumption;

for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international
agreements to which the Borrower is a party;

on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the
United Nations; and

under a contract with respect to which the Bank determines that an event
has occurred under Section 7.03(c) of the General Conditions.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated March 12, 2012 with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.

“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to
(a) improve business climate and enhance transparency; (b) boost labor force
participation and widen access to finance; and (c) deepen Turkey’s infrastructure
reforms and set forth or referred to in the letter dated June 23, 2014, from the
Borrower to the Bank declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of

-14-
10.

the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program
during its execution.

“Single Withdrawal Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the
category entitled “Single Withdrawal! Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of
Section Il of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

Section Il. Modifications to the General Conditions

The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:

1.

6.

The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.

Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered
accordingly.

Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management;
Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly.

Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above
and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.

Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3
above) is modified to read as follows:

“Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records

(c) The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other. documents) evidencing expenditures
under the Loan until two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower
shall enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.”

Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3
above) is modified to read as follows:

Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation
(c) The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and
furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a

report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by the Loan

-15-

 

Sere Fat a EL GOD Baayen pte ne

wy einen Je AOE NAT BIDME PRa ati ROY AERIS BHAT Yr:
AUR SEY Hey at i SIR CATE MRI SR NST AK Pew " ye

(Pr MILI MEN MSO Fag pty tf
‘ iss

1-day)
Parties and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Legal
Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.

The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered
accordingly:

(a) The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as
follows:

“Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put
in support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures
excluded pursuant to the Loan Agreement.”

(b) The term “Financial Statements” and its definition are deleted in their
entirety.
(c) The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is

modified to read as follows (and all references to “Project” throughout
these General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”):

‘“Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan
Agreement in support of which the Loan is made.”

-16-
