Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

 

 

LOAN NUMBER 8449-YF

Loan Agreement

(Floods Emergency Recovery Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF SERBIA
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated Heb ber G , 2014

~
LOAN AGREEMENT

Agreement dated Dpbher q , 2014, between REPUBLIC OF SERBIA
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01. The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

1.02. Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IT — LOAN

2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of EUR two hundred twenty seven
million four hundred and eighty thousand, (EUR 227,480,000), as such amount
may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to
assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement
(“Project”).

2.02. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

2.03. The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.

2.04. The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter
of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.

2.05. The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(e) of the
General Conditions.
2.06.

2.07.

2.08.

3.01.

2.

The Payment Dates are May | and November | in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

(a)

(b)

The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:

(i)

(ii)

(iii)

a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an
Approved Currency;

-a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any

portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa;
or (B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Reference Rate and the Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based
on a Fixed Reference Rate and the Variable Spread, or vice
versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn
and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and

the setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate
applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an
Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or
the Reference Rate.

Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.

ARTICLE II — PROJECT

The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, and in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions, the Borrower shall: (a) cause the Project Implementing Entity to
carry out Part I of the Project, and (b) carry out Parts II and III of the Project

through MAEP.
3.02.

4.01.

5.03.

6.01.

-3-

Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shail
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK

The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following: namely, that the
Project Implementing Entity’s Legislation has been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability
of the Project Implementing Entity to perform any of its obligations under the
Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Agreement.

The Additional Event of Acceleration consist of the following: namely, that the
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a
period of thirty (30) days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to
the Borrower.

ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that
the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and the
Project Implementing Entity.

The Additional Legal Matters consist of, namely, that the Subsidiary Agreement
referred to in Section 5.01 has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower
and the Project Implementing Entity and is legally binding upon the Borrower
and the Project Implementing Entity in accordance with its terms.

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.

ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

For the purposes of Section 10.02 of the General Conditions, the Borrower's
Representative who, inter alia, may agree to modification of the provisions of
this Agreement on behalf of the Borrower, through exchange of letters (unless
otherwise determined by the Borrower and the Bank), is its Minister of Finance.
6.03.

-4-

The Borrower’s Address is:

Ministry of Finance
20 Kneza Milosa St.
11000 Belgrade
Republic of Serbia

Facsimile:

(381-11) 3618-961

The Bank’s Address ts:

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W. °
Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America

Cable address: Telex: Facsimile:

INTBAFRAD 248423(MCD or 1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 64145(MCI)
-5-

AGREED at He Dcditbot- Colum bie Lbnile [Slate g Ameica., as of the day and

year first above written.

REPUBLIC OF SERBIA

" Caen

Authorized Representative

Name: Dusan Vujovic

Title: Minsle oft Kiangate

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By a”

Authorized Representative

Name: Ellen Col dslein
Title: Cou aly Dive An
-6-

SCHEDULE 1

Project Description

The objectives of the Project are to: (i) help restore power system capability to
reliably meet domestic demand; (ii) protect livelihoods of farmers in the Flood Affected
Areas; (111) protect people and assets from floods; and (iv) improve the Borrower’s
capacity to respond effectively to disasters.

The Project consists of the following parts:

PartI. Energy Sector Support

A.

B.

C,

Financing of electricity purchases to improve power availability.

Supporting urgent restoration of the distribution network by: (1)
provision of metering devices for Flood Affected Areas; (it) provision of
mobile substations; (iii) provision of energy-efficient light bulbs, and
technical assistance and other goods to support power system load
management activities.

Dewatering of Tamnava West Open Pit Mine.

Part If. Agricultural Sector Support

Supporting the financing of payments to farmers under the Borrower’s Farm
Incentives Program, in Flood Affected Areas.

Part If]. Flood Protection

A.

Rehabilitating and reconstructing priority flood prevention and drainage
control infrastructure through the provision of works, goods and
consultants’ services in Flood Affected Areas, and areas vulnerable to

flooding.

Support for Project management, including operating costs, and
strengthening technical capacity for improved flood prevention and
management, including technical studies to identify priority flood
prevention infrastructure works and preparation of technical designs,
bidding documents and terms of reference for such activities.

Part IV. Contingent Emergency Response

Provision of immediate response to an Eligible Crisis or Emergency, as needed.
-7-

SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Section I. Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional Arrangements
l. The Borrower, through its Office for Reconstruction and Flood Retief, shall be

responsible for oversight of Project implementation, including, inter alia, (a)
carrying out periodic monitoring activities on Project implementation and
evaluation, including Project reporting activities pursuant to criteria set forth in
the MAEP Project Operations Manual and the PIE Project Operations Manual;
(b) carrying out coordination activities among the Project Implementing Entity,
DAP, DWM, and with other entities of the Borrower, as necessary; (c) advising
MAEP/DWM to adopt and/or amend the MAEP Project Operations Manual and
any revisions to the Procurement Plan; (d) monitoring disbursements and
addressing bottlenecks; (e) reviewing periodic financial reports; and (f)
monitoring timely resolution of audit issues for the project.

2. The Borrower, through the Office for Reconstruction and Flood Relief, shall:

(a) cause the Project Implementing Entity to carry out Part I of the Project in
accordance with this Agreement, the Project Agreement, the Subsidiary
Agreement, and the PIE Project Operations Manual;

(b) ensure that the Project Implementing Entity is responsible for the day-to-
day implementation, including procurement and financial management,
of Part I of the Project; and

(c) cause the Project Implementing Entity to establish not later than
November 15 2014, and thereafter maintain, a Project implementation
team with terms of reference, competent staff and sufficient resources,
satisfactory to the Bank, for purposes of carrying out Part I of the
Project.

3. The Borrower shall not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive the Farm
Incentives Program in any way that, in the opinion of the Bank, would affect
materially and adversely the payments to farmers in the Flood Affected Areas,
under Part II of the Project.

4. The Borrower, through MAEP, shall:

(a) carry out Parts II and III of the Project in accordance with this
Agreement and the MAEP Project Operations Manual;
XA

-8-

(b) ensure that DAP maintains competent staff and sufficient resources,
satisfactory to the Bank, to carry out Part I of the Project;

(c) ensure that MAEP establishes, not later than November 15, 2014 and
thereafter maintains a Project Implementation Unit under DWM with
terms of reference, competent staff, including a manager, a procurement
specialist, a financial management specialist, a safeguards specialist, and
a monitoring and evaluation specialist, and sufficient resources,
satisfactory to the Bank, to carry out Parts II, and III of the Project; and

(d) ensure that a training plan, satisfactory to the Bank is prepared annually,
which shall include information on the training activities, selected
training providers, training cost, and number, position and names of
individuals to be trained. The training plan shall be updated as required,
but at least yearly during Project implementation, in agreement with the
Bank.

Not later than December 1, 2014, the Borrower shall cause the Project
Implementing Entity to adopt the PIE Project Operations Manual for Part I of the
Project and shall adopt, through MAEP, the MAEP Project Operations Manual -
for Parts II and III of the Project.

Subsidiary Agreement

To facilitate the carrying out of the Project Implementing Entity’s Respective
Part of the Project, the Borrower shall make part of the proceeds of the Loan
available to the Project Implementing Entity under a subsidiary agreement
between the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity (“Subsidiary
Agreement”), under terms and conditions approved by the Bank, which shall
include the following: the principal amount of the Loan made available under the
Subsidiary Agreement (“Subsidiary Loan”) shall be: (a) denominated and
repayable in Euros; and (b) made in no less favorable terms than the terms of the
Loan.

The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary
Agreement or any of its provisions.

Anti-Corruption

The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
-9-

Safeguards

The Borrower shall carry out Parts II and III of the Project, and shall cause the
Project Implementing Entity to carry out Part I of the Project in accordance with
the ESMF, any and all EMPs, the EMP for the Tamnava West Open Pit Mine, the
RPF, any and all RAPs, and the MAEP Project Operation Manual and/or PIE
Project Operation Manual, as the case may be, and shall not assign, amend,
suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive any provision of the ESMF, the EMPs, the
EMP for the Tamnava West Open Pit Mine, the RPF, the RAPs, or the PIE
Project Operations Manual or MAEP Project Operations Manual, as the case may
be, without prior approval of the Bank.

For the purposes of Parts I.B, I.C, and III of the Project, the Borrower shall, or |
shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to:

(a) prior to the issuance of any bidding documents for works contracts,
prepare and submit to the Bank the proposed design and the related site-
specific EMP to the extent required by the ESMF, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank;

(b) prior to the signing of the contract for said works, prepare and submit to
the Bank for its approval the site-specific RAPs in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank, if any land acquisition is required; and

(c) prior to the commencement of the works involving land acquisition,
ensure that the owners and users of the land where said works are to be
implemented are fully compensated in accordance with the provisions of
the RAP(s), if required.

The Borrower shall ensure, and shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to
ensure, the complete implementation of the EMP for the Tamnava West Open Pit
Mine and any and all EMPs, in a manner acceptable to the Bank, including all
necessary measures to minimize and to mitigate any adverse environmental
impacts caused by the implementation of the Project.

Contingent Emergency Response Mechanism

In order to ensure the proper implementation of Part IV of the Project
(“Contingent Emergency Response”) (“CERC Part’’), the Borrower shall take the
following measures.

The Borrower shall:

(a) prepare and furnish to the Bank for its review and approval, an
operations manual which shall set forth detailed implementation
(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

-10-

arrangements for the CERC Part, including: (i) designation of, terms of
reference for and resources to be allocated to, the entity to be responsible
for coordinating and implementing the CERC Part (“Coordinating
Authority”); (ii) specific activities which may be included in the CERC
Part, Eligible Expenditures required therefor (“Emergency
Expenditures”), and any procedures for such inclusion; (iii) financial
management arrangements for the CERC Part; (iv) procurement methods
and procedures for Emergency Expenditures to be financed under the
CERC Part; (v) documentation required for withdrawals of Emergency
Expenditures; (vi) environmental and social safeguard management
frameworks for the CERC Part, consistent with the Bank’s policies on
the matter; and (vii) any other arrangements necessary to ensure proper
coordination and implementation of the CERC Part;

afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to review said proposed
operations manual;

promptly adopt such operations manual for the CERC Part as shall have
been approved by the Bank (“CERC Operations Manual”);

ensure that the CERC Part is carried out in accordance with the CERC
Operations Manual; provided, however, that in the event of any
inconsistency between the provisions of the CERC Operations Manual
and this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail; and

not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive any provision of the
CERC Operations Manual without prior approval by the Bank.

The Borrower shall, throughout the implementation of the CERC Part, maintain
the Coordinating Authority, with adequate staff and resources satisfactory to the

Bank.

The Bank shall undertake no activities under the CERC Part (and no activities
shall be included in the CERC Part) unless and until the following conditions
have been met in respect of said activities:

(a)

(b)

the Bank has determined that an Eligible Crisis or Emergency has
occurred, has furnished to the Bank a request to include said activities in
the CERC Part in order to respond to said Eligible Crisis or Emergency,
and the Bank has agreed with such determination, accepted said request
and notified the Borrower thereof; and

the Borrower has prepared and disclosed all safeguards instruments
required for said activities, in accordance with the CERC Operations
Manual, the Bank has approved all such instruments, and the Borrower
-]]-

has implemented any actions which are required to be taken under said
instruments.

Section FH. Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

A.

Project Reports

The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the Bank. Each Project
Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to
the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered by
such report.

Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits

The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.

Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each
calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the
quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.

The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the
Bank not later than six months after the end of such period.

The Borrower shall ensure that the Project Implementing Entity has its financial
statements audited on an annual basis. The audited Financial Statements for each
such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than nine (9) months after the
end of such period.

Section III. Procurement

General

Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
B

-|2-

Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.

Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, [¥V and V of the Consultant
Guidelines, as the case may be.

Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services

International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.

Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding,
may be used for procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for
those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) National Competitive
Bidding, subject to the additional provisions set forth in the Attachment to this
Schedule 2; (b) Shopping; (c) Direct Contracting; (d) Force Account; (e) Well-
established Private Sector Procurement Methods or Commercial Practices which
have been found acceptable to the Bank; and (f) Procurement of Commodities
following the procedures set forth in paragraph 2.68 of the Procurement
Guidelines.

Procurement of Eligible Essential Goods, including Commodities, Non-
consulting Services, and Consultants’ Services

Notwithstanding the provisions of Section III, Part B of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, the procurement of goods (including commodities), non-consulting
services, and consultants’ services required under Parts I and III of the Project
may be conducted, through June 30, 2015, pursuant to: (1) national emergency
procedures as set forth in the relevant laws of the Borrower; or (2) commercial
practices of the private sector, as respectively set forth in the PIE Project
Operations Manual and the MAEP Project Operations Manual.

Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph

2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
-|3-

2. Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants’ services for those contracts which are specified in
the Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based Selection; (b) Selection under a Fixed
Budget; (c) Least Cost Selection; (d) Selection based on Consultants’
Qualifications; (e) Single-source Selection of consulting firms; (f) Procedures set
forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of
Individual Consultants; and (g) Single-source procedures for the Selection of
Individual Consultants.

E. Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank’s Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.

F. Procurement of Emergency Expenditures under the CERC Part of the
Project

Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in this Section, Emergency
Expenditures required for the CERC Part of the Project shall be procured in
accordance with the procurement methods and procedures set forth in the CERC
Operations Manual.

Section IV. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. General

1. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.

2. The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
-14-

 
    

  

Amount of the Loan
Allocated

0
(1) Power Purchases for 119,817,000 , ee T
Part 1.A of the Project | (exclusive of Taxes)

37,290,000 100%

53,084,000 100%

16,720,300 100%

Pt mm
568,700 Amount payable pursuant to
Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions

For purposes of this table “exclusive of Taxes” means, in connection with
Section 2.06 of the General Conditions, that the Loan proceeds shall not be used for
financing of Taxes levied by, or in the territory of the Borrower on or in respect of
Eligible Expenditures, or on their importation, manufacture, procurement or supply.

     
     
  
 
  
        
 

Percentage of Expenditures
to be financed

   
     
   
     
     
   
   
   
   

(2) Goods (excluding Power
Purchases under Category
(1)), works, non-
consulting services,
training, and consultants’
services for Part I of the
Project

(3) Payments under the Farm
Incentives Program under
Part II of the Project

     
   
   
   
   
   
   
  

(4) Goods, works, non-
consulting services,
consultants’ services,
Training and Incremental
Operating Costs for Parts
II and III of the Project

  

(5) Emergency Expenditures
under Part IV of the
Project

   
   

(6) Front-end Fee

   
  
-15-

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made:

(a) for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed Euro 90,992,000
may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after May
15, 2014, for Eligible Expenditures, under Categories (1), (2), and (3); or

(b) under Category (1) unless the Project Implementing Entity has adopted
the PIE Project Operations Manual satisfactory to the Bank; or

(c) under Category (2) unless:

(i) the Project Implementing Entity has adopted the PIE Project
Operations Manual satisfactory to the Bank; and

(11) the ESMF and RPF satisfactory to the Bank have been adopted
and published; or

(d) under Category (3) unless:

(i) MAEP has adopted the MAEP Project Operations Manual
satisfactory to the Bank;

(11) the ESMF satisfactory to the Bank has been adopted and
published;

(iii) | MAEP has submitted evidence satisfactory to the Bank that any
payments under the Farm Incentives Program have been made to
eligible beneficiaries by the Borrower (i.e. farmers in the Flood
Affected Areas), in accordance with the procedures set forth in
the applicable laws and regulations, and the MAEP Project
Operations Manual; or

(e) under Category (4) unless:

(i) MAEP has adopted the MAEP Project Operations Manual
satisfactory to the Bank;

(i1) the ESMF and RPF satisfactory to the Bank have been adopted
and published; and
B

(f)

(iii)

-16-

DWM has established a PIU with terms of reference, competent
staff, and sufficient resources satisfactory to the Bank; or

under Category (5), for Emergency Expenditures under Part IV of the
Project, unless and until the Bank is satisfied, and notified the Borrower
of its satisfaction, that all of the following conditions have been met in
respect of said activities: |

(i)

(ii)

(111)

(iv)

the Borrower has determined that an Eligible Crisis or
Emergency has occurred, has furnished to the Bank a request to
include said activities in the CERC Part in order to respond to
said Eligible Crisis or Emergency, and the Bank has agreed with
such determination, accepted said request and notified the
Borrower thereof;

the Borrower has prepared and disclosed all safeguards
instruments required for said activities, and the Borrower has
implemented any actions which are required to be taken under
said instruments, all in accordance with the provisions of Section
LE of Schedule 2 to this Agreement;

the Borrower’s Coordinating Authority has adequate staff and
resources, in accordance with the provisions of Section IE of
this Schedule 2 to this Agreement, for the purposes of said
activities; and

the Borrower has adopted a CERC Operations Manual in form,
substance and manner acceptable to the Bank and the provisions
of the CERC Operations Manual remain, or have been updated
in accordance with the provisions of Section I.E of this Schedule
2, so as to be appropriate for the inclusion and implementation of
said activities under the CERC Part.

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, if, at any time, the Bank
determines that any portion of the amount disbursed by the Bank under Category
(3) was made for reimbursement of expenditures which are not eligible under the
Borrower’s Farm Incentives Program, or not in compliance with the provisions of
Section IV.B.1(d)(iii) of this Schedule, and the provisions of the MAEP Project
Operations Manual, the Borrower shall promptly refund any such amount to the
Bank, as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.

The Closing Date is December 31, 2017. |
-17-

Section V. Other Undertakings

1.

The Borrower undertakes to ensure the financial sustainability of the Project
Implementing Entity, on the basis of a set of operational and financial target
indicators acceptable to the Bank and set forth in the PIE Operations Manual,
which may be reviewed and adjusted from time to time, but at least annually,
with the agreement of the Bank.

In connection with the foregoing, and notwithstanding the remedies available to
the Bank in cases of performance failure, the Borrower undertakes to prepare a
time-bound action plan, acceptable to the Bank to address deviations from the
targets set pursuant to paragraph | of this Section.
-18-

Attachment
to
SCHEDULE 2

The procedures to be followed for National Competitive Bidding shall be those set forth
in this Attachment to Schedule 2 of the Loan Agreement of even date hereto, between the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the Republic of Serbia,
provided, however that such procedure shall be subject to the provisions of Section | and
Paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the “Guidelines for Procurement of Goods, Works, and Non-
Consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers”(January 2011, revised July 2014) (the “Procurement Guidelines”), and the
following additional provisions:

“Open Tendering” procedures as defined in Public Procurement Law of Serbia
shall apply to all contracts.

Foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding and no preference of any
kind shall be given to national bidders in the bidding process. Government-
owned enterprises in Serbia shall be permitted to bid only if they are legally and
financially autonomous and operate under commercial law of the Recipient.

Procuring entities shall use sample bidding documents approved by the Bank.

In case of higher bid prices compared to the official estimate, all bids shall not be
rejected without the prior concurrence of the World Bank.

A single-envelope procedure shall be used for the submission of bids.

Post-qualification shall be conducted only on the lowest evaluated bidder; no bid
shall be rejected at the time of bid opening on qualification grounds.

Bidders who contract as a joint venture shall be held jointly and severally liable.
Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated, substantially responsive
bidder who is determined to be qualified to perform in accordance with pre-

defined and pre-disclosed evaluation criteria.

Post-bidding negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest evaluated or any
other bidders.

Contracts of long duration (more than 18 months) shall contain appropriate price

adjustment provisions.

The bidding document and contract as deemed acceptable by the World Bank
shall include provisions stating the World Bank’s policy to sanction firms or
-19-

individuals, found to have engaged in fraud and corruption as defined in the
Procurement Guidelines.

In accordance with the Procurement Guidelines, each bidding document and
contract financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall provide that bidders,
suppliers and contractors, and their subcontractors, agents, personnel,
consultants, service providers, or suppliers, shall permit the World Bank to
inspect all accounts, records, and other documents relating to the submission of
bids and contract performance, and to have them audited by auditors appointed
by the World bank. Acts intended to materially impede the exercise of the World
Bank’s inspection and audit rights provided for in the Procurement Guidelines
constitute an obstructive practice as defined in the Guidelines.
-20-

SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule

l. The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date (“Installment Share”). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.

Principal Payment Date

On each May land November |!
Beginning November 1, 2023
through November 1, 2043 2.38%

On May 1, 2044 PAH

2. If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:

  

Installment Share
Expressed as a Percentage

   
   
    
  
 

  

  
  

      

(a) To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1
of this Schedule.

(b) Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”)
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
-2]-

(a) Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.

(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.

If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.
-22-

APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

I.

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines”. means the “Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.

“CERC Part of the Project” and “CERC Part” each means Part IV of the Project.

“Contingent Emergency Response Component Operations Manual” and “CERC
Operations Manual” each means the operations manual referred to in Section I.E
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, to be adopted by the Borrower for the CERC
Part of the Project in accordance with the provisions of said Section.

“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers” dated January 2011, revised July 2014.

“Coordinating Authority” means the entity or entities designated by the Recipient
in the CERC Operations Manual and approved by the Bank pursuant to Section
LE of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, to be responsible for coordinating the CERC
Part of the Project.

“Directorate for Agrarian Payments” or “DAP” means the agrarian payments
administration within MAEP, responsible for incentive payments to farmers, or
any legal successor thereto.

“Directorate of Water Management” or “DWM” means the directorate within
MAEP responsible for water management, or any legal successor thereto.

“Eligible Crisis or Emergency” means an event that may occur after the date of
this Agreement, and may have caused, or is likely to imminently cause, a major
adverse economic and/or social impact to the Borrower, associated with a natural
or man-made crisis or disaster, as determined by the Bank pursuant to Section
LE.3 of Schedule 2.

“Emergency Expenditure” means any of the Eligible Expenditures set forth in the
CERC Operations Manual in accordance with the provisions of Section I.E of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and required for the activities included in the
CERC Part of the Project.
12.

14,

-23-

“EMP” means the Environmental Management Plans prepared or to be prepared
by the Borrower through MAEP, or by the Project Implementing Entity,
satisfactory to the Bank, and updated as necessary during Project
implementation, in respect of works to be undertaken by the Borrower through
MAEP, or by the Project Implementing Entity under the Project defining details
of measures to manage potential environmental risks and mitigate, reduce and/or
offset adverse environmental impacts associated with the implementation of
activities under the Project, together with adequate institutional, monitoring and
reporting arrangements capable of ensuring proper implementation of, and
regular feedback on compliance with, its terms, as the same shall be updated
during Project implementation based on the detailed works plans and designs, as
the same may be amended or supplemented in any other way from time to time
with the Bank’s prior written approval.

“EMP for the Tamnava West Open Pit Mine” means the Borrower’s site-specific
Environmental Management Plan, prepared by the Project Implementing Entity
and satisfactory to the Bank, dated September 16, 2014, and disclosed on the
Project Implementing Entity’s website on September 18, 2014 for
implementation of Part I.C of the Project, and updated as necessary during
Project implementation, that covers water quantity and its impact downstream
from point of discharge into Kolubara River; water quality and mode of
control/monitoring; mud/sludge quality and its impact on the Kolubara River

_water quality, and impact of suspended matter that will be pumped out with water

into the river; mud/sludge management and arrangements in case of finding
“unpolluted” and “polluted” sludge; bank stability downstream of the water
discharge point; health and safety work arrangements; and restoration of the
embankments from damage caused by dewatering activities, upon their
completion.

“ESMF” means the Borrower’s Environmental and Social Management
Framework to be prepared by the Borrower through MAEP and by the Project
Implementing Entity, and satisfactory to the Bank, to be published on MAEP’s
website, the Project Implementing Entity’s website and the Bank’s Infoshop,
which identifies the policy triggers for the Project, the screening criteria for
activities, the likely environmental and social! impacts of the financing and the
potential mitigation measures of the identified risks, assessment of the
institutional capacity of the implementing agency and measures for capacity-
filling gaps, and an estimate of the budget needed for its implementation and
related instruments, as well as specific actions to review the Farm Incentives
Program, and guidance for the preparation of activities-specific environmental
and social impact assessments and/or Environmental Management Plans (EMPs).

“Farm Incentives Program” is the Borrower’s program to provide financial
incentives to farmers in the Republic of Serbia, including: (a) direct support (i.e.
reimbursement for fuel, seeds, and fertilizers, payments per hectare cultivated,
16.

18.

19.

20.

-24-

per head of specific livestock, per liter of milk); (b) support to rural development
(i.e., meeting food safety and environmental protection standards); and (c)
special support measures (i.e., capacity building, introducing farmers to
accounting and book-keeping), as such program is defined by the Borrower’s
Law on Incentives for Agriculture and Rural Development of 2013.

“Flood Affected Areas” means the following forty-nine (49) municipalities
within the Borrower’s territory, which were adversely affected by the floods in
May 2014: Aleksinac, Bajina Basta, Bogatic¢, Catak, Cuprija, Despotovac,
Doljevac, Gornji Milanovac, Grocka, Jagodina, Kni¢, Koceljeva, Kosjeric¢,
Kragujevac, Kraljevo, Krupanj, Krusevac, Lajkovac, Lazarevac, Ljig, Ljubovya,
Loznica, Luéani, Mali Zvornik, Mionica, Mladenovac, Obrenovac, Ose¢ina,
Paraéin, Petrovac na Mlavi, PozZarevac, Pozega, Rata, Rakovica, RazZanj,
Rekovac, Sabac, Sid, Smederevska Palanka, Sremska Mitrovica, Svilajnac,
Trstenik, Ub, Uzice, Valjevo, Varvarin, Velika Plana, ‘V ladimirci, and ZajeCar.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.

“MAEP Project Operations Manual” means the manual to be prepared by MAEP,
and satisfactory to the Bank, setting forth the financial management procedures,
procurement and institutional arrangements for carrying out Parts II and III of the
Project, and monitoring and auditing mechanisms for the Project, as the same
may be amended from time to time by agreement between the Bank and MAEP.

“Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection” or “MAEP” means the
Borrower’s Ministry responsible for agriculture and environmental protection, or
any legal successor thereto.

“Office for Reconstruction and Flood Relief’ means the special entity of the
Borrower, established pursuant to the Borrower’s Law on Post-flood
Rehabilitation, and the Borrower’s Decree on Establishment of the Office for the
Assistance and Recovery of Flood Areas, which is in charge of coordination of,
and assistance with, the reconstruction and relief efforts to address the floods and
natural disasters that affected the Borrower in mid-May 2014.

“Operating Costs” means the reasonable and incremental expenses incurred by
the PIU on account of Project implementation, based on periodic budgets
acceptable to the Bank, for the maintenance and leasing of vehicles and
equipment, for fuel, office supplies and other consumables, vehicle and
equipment insurance, office rent, internet connection and communications costs,
support for information systems, translation costs, bank charges, utilities, and
travel, transportation, per diem and accommodation: costs (other than for
training), and other reasonable expenditures directly associated with
21.

22.

23.

24.

25.

26.

27.

25-

implementation of Project activities. Incremental expenses will not include
salaries of officials of the Borrower’s civil service.

“PIE Project Operations Manual” means the manual to be prepared by the Project
Implementing Entity, and satisfactory to the Bank, setting forth the financial
management procedures, procurement and institutional arrangements for carrying
out Part I of the Project, and monitoring and auditing mechanisms for the Project,
as the same may be amended from time to time by agreement between the Bank
and the Project Implementing Entity.

“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers” dated January 2011, revised in July 2014.

“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project,
dated September 17, 2014 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.

“Project Implementing Entity” means, the Borrower’s fully owned, holding
Public Company Elektroprivreda Srbije (EPS), which includes thirteen legal
entities covering coal production, electricity generation, distribution and
renewable energy sources.

“Project Implementing Entity’s Legislation” means Law on Public Enterprises
(Official Gazette of RS No. 119/12), Decision on Harmonization of Business
Operation of Public Enterprise for Generation, Distribution and Trading of
Electricity with the Law on Public Enterprises (Official Gazette of RS No.
50/13), and Decision on amendment of the Decision on Incorporation of the
Company for Production, Processing and Transport of Coal Mining Basin
“Kolubara” D.O.O. Lazarevac, dated July 2014.

“Project Implementation Unit” or “PIU” means a unit established by DWM to
implement Parts II and III of the Project, with terms of reference, competent
staff, and resources satisfactory to the Bank.

“RAP” means any site-specific resettlement action plan, prepared or to be
prepared by the Borrower through MAEP, or by the Project Implementing Entity,
pursuant to the RPF and this Agreement, and satisfactory to the Bank, containing,
inter alia, a program of actions, measures and policies for compensation and
resettlement of persons, including compensation and resettlement arrangements,
budget and cost estimates, and sources of funding, together with adequate
institutional, monitoring and reporting arrangements capable of ensuring proper
implementation of, and regular feedback on compliance with its terms for each site.
28.

29.

30.

-26-

“RPF” means the Borrower’s Resettlement Policy Framework, to be prepared
and adopted by the Borrower through MAEP and by the Project Implementing
Entity, and satisfactory to the Bank, setting forth resettlement procedures,
institutional arrangements, eligibility criteria, entitlements and compensation,
including valuation procedures, public consultation and participation, and
monitoring and evaluation criteria to be applied in preparing a Resettlement
Action Plan (RAP).

“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.B of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make the
proceeds of the Loan available to the Project Implementing Entity.

“Tamnava West Open Pit Mine” means an open pit mine located in Kolubarska
Oblast, Republic of Serbia.

Section H. Modifications to the General Conditions

The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:

In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs
below.

Section 3.01. (Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
“Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge

(a) The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at
the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the “Front-end Fee”).

(b) The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the
“Commitment Charge”). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty
days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective dates on which
amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan Account or cancelled.
The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each
Payment Date.”

In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and
paragraphs are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in
paragraph 2 above.
-27-

The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of “Commitment Charge”, and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs
accordingly:

“19. “Commitment Charge” means the commitment charge specified in the
Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b).”

In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the
definition of “Front-end Fee” is modified by replacing the reference to Section
3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).

In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the
definition of the term “Loan Payment” is modified to read as follows:

“68. “Loan Payment” means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the
Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including
(but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the
Front-end Fee, the Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if
any), any prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early
termination of a Conversion, the Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any
premium payable upon the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar, and any Unwinding Amount payable by the Borrower.”

In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the
definition of “Payment Date” is modified by deleting the word “is” and inserting
the words “and Commitment Charge are” after the word “interest”.
