7‘ : 2 és ao? wits

OFFICIAL .
. | DOCUMENTS

man

 

 

 

LOAN NUMBER 8306-PE

Loan Agreement

(Cusco Regional Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF PERU
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated Jul 24,2014

 

 

Ve
LOAN AGREEMENT

Agreement dated ) Y , 2014, between the REPUBLIC OF
PERU (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND

DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:

1.02.

2.01.

2.02.

2.03.

2.05.

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.

Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.

ARTICLE II — LOAN

The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of thirty five million United States Dollars
(USD35,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement (“Project”).

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower’s Representative for purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this Section is the Borrower’s
Minister of Economy and Finance, or its Director General of Indebtedness and Public
Treasury of the Ministry of Finance (“MEF”), and/or any other person whom the Minister
and/or the Director shall designate and communicate in writing to the Bank.

The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not later than 60
days after the Effective Date.

The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to
the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread ; provided, that upon
a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest
payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be
determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General
Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan
Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty
days, then the interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in
Section 3.02 (e) of the General Conditions.

The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.

-2-
2.06.

2.07.

3.01.

3.02.

4.01.

4.02.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

(a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (11) a change of the
interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or
vice versa; or (B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a
Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (ili) the setting of limits on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference
Rate.

(b) Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in the
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.

ARTICLE III — PROJECT

The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall cause the Region of Cusco, acting through PER Plan COPESCO, to carry
out the Project pursuant to the provisions of the Subsidiary Agreement, and in accordance
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.

Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK

The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following, namely, that the Recipient
and or the Region of Cusco have amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived, or
failed to enforce the Subsidiary Agreement, whether in whole or in part, so as to affect
materially and adversely the ability of the Region of Cusco to perform any of its
obligations thereunder.

The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that any event

specified in Section 4.01 above occurs and is continuing for a period of sixty (60) days
after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower.

-3-
5.03.

6.01.

6.02.

6.03.

ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:

(a) the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and the
Region of Cusco; and

(b) PER Plan COPESCO has prepared and adopted the Project Operations Manual in
a manner acceptable to the Bank.

The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely, that the Subsidiary
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the Region of Cusco
and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the Region of Cusco in accordance with its
terms.

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement,
but in no case later than eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan (i.e.
no later than May 22, 2015).

ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Economy and Finance, provided that the
Borrower’s Director of Indebtedness and Public Treasury, may, by him or herself
represent the Borrower to sign amendments and/or notices to this Agreement which are
considered of an administrative and non-financial nature. The signing by such Director
of an amendment and/or notice shall constitute a representation by the Borrower that any
such amendment and/or notice is considered to be administrative and non-financial in
nature.

The Borrower’s Address 1s:

Ministry of Economy and Finance

Jr. Junin 319

Lima, Peru

Facsimile: +51 (1) 626-9921

The Bank’s Address is:

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America

Cable address: Telex: Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 64145(MCI)

-4-
AGREED at
year first above written.

WV Pare , as of the day and

REPUBLIC OF PERU
By

Authorized Representative

Name: AU1$ M1 6-U E22 CGs72cA

Title: WA S720 JE ECONONIA Y

FIN AW LAL

INTERNATIQNAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND RBEVELOPMENT

  
   

By

ized Representative

Name: .Me£eé€ PAIR

Title: U/ CE PRES /D EWI PABA
ANERICA LATINA YEU ChRIBE

-5-
SCHEDULE 1

Project Description

The objective of the Project is to improve the quality of tourism and solid waste

management services and increase the resilience of the tourism sector to the impacts of natural
disasters in the Provinces of Calca, Urubamba and Cusco.

The Project consists of the following parts:

Component 1: Development and Consolidation of Tourism Services

l.

Consolidating classic tourist attractions in the Sacred Valley by improving and expanding
existing infrastructure through the provision, improvement and/or construction of, inter
alia: access ways to touristic sites; internal trails (including footpath surfaces, staircases,
bridges and railings); internal signage (both informative and interpretive); traffic
distribution points; lighting; drainage; touristic centers; toilets; ticketing offices; parking
lots; craft markets; and other small ancillary infrastructure in touristic sites.

Developing and implementing a pilot competitive fund (fondo concursable) to provide
technical assistance to private small and micro enterprises in order to improve the
competiveness of touristic products and services.

Strengthening the institutional capacity of agencies and institutions involved in the
operation of touristic activities in the Sacred Valley, in order to: (i) commercialize and
position touristic products and services in the domestic and international markets; and (11)
collect touristic related data and prepare a database for the evaluation and analysis of the
development of the sector.

Component 2: Integrated Solid Waste Management

Improving the local capacity to clean streets and public places and to efficiently collect,
transport and dispose of solid waste in the Provinces of Calca, Urubamba and Cusco
through, inter alia: (i) the construction of three (3) new landfills, one in each of the
Provinces of Calca, Urubamba and Cusco; (ii) the strengthening of provincial and
municipal administration’s institutional capacity in order to administer the management
of solid waste facilities and services; and (iii) the investments in solid waste services as
the district level to improve collection, recycling and the cleaning of streets and public
spaces; and (iv) the carrying out of communication campaigns in local communities for
the promotion of adequate waste management practices and environmental education.

Component 3: Disaster Risk Management and Disaster Preparedness

Increasing the resilience of the local population and tourism infrastructure to natural
disasters through, inter alia: (i) designing and implementing early warning systems to
anticipate the flooding of the Vilcanota and Patacancha rivers in the Sacred Valley and
Ollantaytambo; (ii) designing and implementing an integrated approach to the reduction

-6-
of geological and climatic risks in the micro-basin of K’itamayu river in Pisag; (ili)
designing and implementing an integrated approach to mitigate external geodynamic
risks in the Ccochog river basin in the Province of Calca; and (iv) updating the disaster
risk management plan for the Sacred Valley, including plans for the evacuation of
tourists, and carrying out evacuation training and simulation exercises with local
population and tourists.

Component 4: Institutional Strengthening, Management and Monitoring and Evaluation

Strengthening the institutional capacity of PER Plan COPESCO, to enhance the
institutional capabilities required for the successful implementation of Project activities,
including compliance with procurement, safeguards, financial management, and
monitoring and evaluation requirements.
SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Section I. Implementation Arrangements
A. Subsidiary Agreement

1.

To facilitate the carrying out of the Project by the Region of Cusco, the Borrower shall
on-lend the proceeds of the Loan to the Region of Cusco under a subsidiary agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and the Region of Cusco, under terms and
conditions approved by the Bank (“Subsidiary Agreement’); which shall include, inter
alia:

(a) the roles and responsibilities of the Region of Cusco, acting through PER Plan
COPESCO, with regard to the implementation of the Project, including
compliance with the covenants set forth in Section 5.01 and 5.02 of this
Agreement and the provision of this Schedule;

(b) the obligation of the Region of Cusco, acting through PER Plan COPESCO, to
carry out the Project in accordance with Safeguard Documents;

(c) the obligation of the Region of Cusco, acting through PER Plan COPESCO, to
comply with the requirements, procedures, criteria and standards set forth in the
General Conditions, the Procurement Guidelines, the Consultants Guidelines, the
Anti-Corruption Guidelines, the Project Operations Manual and the CF
Implementation Manual; and

(d) the obligation of the Region of Cusco, acting through PER Plan COPESCO, to
ensure that the beneficiaries of the private small and micro enterprises receiving
assistance from the competitive fund referred to in Component 1.2 of the Project
abide by, and comply with, the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.

The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the Subsidiary
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive, or fail to enforce the Subsidiary
Agreement or any of its provisions, whether in whole or in part.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event of a conflict between the provisions of the
foregoing Subsidiary Agreement, on the one side, and those of this Agreement (including
the additional instructions referred to in Section [V.A.1 of this Schedule), on the other
side, the provisions and instructions for this Agreement shall prevail.

Institutional Arrangements

The Borrower shall cause the Region of Cusco, acting through PER Plan COPESCO, to:

-8-
(a)

(b)

(c)

establish by no later than December 31, 2013, and thereafter operate and
maintain throughout the period of implementation of Project activities, a Project
coordination committee (the “PCC’’); which committee shall have membership,
functions, powers, resources and competencies acceptable to the Bank as defined
in the Project Operations Manual, as shall be required for it to: (1) provide overall
inter-agency cooperation and general oversight of Project implementation; (ii)
review the various Project Reports and suggest any necessary Project
adjustments; and (iii) assess PER Plan COPESCO’s adequate implementation of
Project activities.

establish by no later than December 31, 2013, and thereafter operate and
maintain throughout the period of implementation of Project activities, three
technical working groups (“Technical Working Groups”), one for each of
Components 1, 2 and 3 of the Project, which working groups shall be comprised
by qualified and experienced technical experts in the respective fields, in
adequate numbers and under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, as
defined in the Project Operations Manual, in order to provide technical advice to
PER Plan COPESCO on the planning and execution of Project activities, as well
as carry out technical reviews of the implementation thereof; and

carry out the Project using its existing structure and shall have dedicated staff
assigned to coordinate and manage Project implementation, with experience and
qualifications defined in the Project Operations Manual, and vested with
financial resources, functions and competencies required for the carrying out of
the day-to-day implementation of Project activities, including the inter-
institutional coordination with other line agencies, the carrying out of planning,
procurement, financial management, monitoring and reporting activities, the
screening of Project activities pursuant to the ESMF, as well as the
implementation of, and monitoring and enforcement of contractors’ compliance
with, the provisions of the Safeguard Documents.

The Borrower shall cause the Region of Cusco (acting through PER Plan COPESCO) to:
(a) strengthen PER Plan COPESCO’s general administrative office within two (2)
months as of the Effective Date through the selection and contracting of an experienced
accountant and an accountant assistant acceptable to the Bank, all under terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) ensure that such accountant and accountant
assistant are maintained throughout Project implementation.

Project Documents

The Borrower shall cause the Region of Cusco, acting through PER Plan COPESCO, to:

(a)

implement the Project in accordance with the Project Operations Manual and the
CF Implementation Manual; provided however that in the event of conflict
between the provisions of said manuals, on the one hand, and those of this
Agreement, on the other hand, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail; and

-9-
(b) refrain from amending, suspending, waiving, and/or voiding any provision of the
Project Operations Manual and/or the CF Implementation Manual, whether in
whole or in part, without the prior written concurrence of the Bank.

Anti-Corruption

The Borrower shall ensure, and cause the Region of Cusco to ensure, that the Project is
carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.

Competitive Fund for Private Small and Micro Enterprises

For purposes of developing and implementing the pilot competitive fund (fondo
concursable) set forth in Component 1.2 of the Project, the Borrower shall cause the
Region of Cusco, acting through PER Plan COPESCO, to:

(a) develop and adopt, and thereafter apply throughout the period of implementation
of activities under Component 1.2 of the Project, an implementation manual (the
“CF Implementation Manual”) acceptable to the Bank, setting forth, inter alia: (i)
the allocation of responsibilities among the different implementation agencies
and units; (ii) the eligibility criteria for the selection of private small and micro
enterprises receiving the Project’s in-kind (technical assistance) support; (iii) the
composition, roles and operating procedures for the committee evaluating and
selecting the Project beneficiaries; (iv) the screening protocols for the
proposals/requests submitted by eligible private small and micro enterprises
interested in Project’s support; (v) a template Sub-project Agreement setting
forth the standard terms and conditions to be subscribed by PER Plan
COPESCO, on behalf of the Region of Cusco, with any selected beneficiary; and
(vi) the monitoring, reporting and evaluation requirements; and

(b) publicly call for private small and micro enterprises to submit proposals for the
provision of technical assistance under the Project for the development of their
business opportunities and/or the improvement of the quality of their
services/products, which proposals shall be: (1) deemed technically feasible in
accordance with criteria acceptable to the Bank; and (11) designed in accordance
with appropriate business, environmental and social standards, acceptable to the
Bank, as set forth in the CF Implementation Manual.

Upon the selection of a proposal submitted by a private small or micro enterprise,
pursuant to paragraph 1 above, the Borrower shall cause the Region of Cusco, acting
through PER Plan COPESCO, to enter into a Sub-project Agreement with the selected
beneficiary, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, which agreement shall
provide, inter alia, that:

(a) the beneficiary declares its commitment to the objective of the Project; and

undertake to conduct its operations and affairs in accordance with sound
environmental and social practices consistent with the ESMF;

-10-
(b) the beneficiary agrees that the procurement responsibilities for the provision of
in-kind technical assistance be vested in PER Plan COPESCO. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, the beneficiary shall undertake to abide and comply with the Anti-
Corruption Guidelines;

(c) the beneficiary: (i) allows PER Plan COPESCO and/or the Bank to carry out
supervision and monitoring activities of the beneficiary’s implementation of the
approved proposal; and (ii) accepts random and unannounced physical or
documentary inspections by PER Plan COPESCO and/or the Bank in respect of
the technical services received and/or activities implemented in connection
therewith;

(d) if so determined by the social and environmental assessment required under
Section [.G.2 below, the beneficiary undertakes to implement its respective
proposal in accordance with the respective Safeguard Documents, which
documents shall have been prepared prior to the signing of the Sub-project
Agreement; and

(e) the Region of Cusco, acting through PER Plan COPESCO, have the right to
suspend or terminate the technical assistance to the selected beneficiary: (i) upon
failure of the respective beneficiary to perform any of its obligations under the
Sub-project Agreement, or upon notice by the Bank that it intends to exercise any
of its remedies under Article VII of the General Conditions; and (11) upon the
Bank sanctioning the beneficiary under the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.

The Borrower shall cause the Region of Cusco, acting through PER Plan COPESCO, to
exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the Sub-project Agreements in such
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower, the Region of Cusco, and the Bank and
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.

Piloting New Contractual Mechanisms

For purposes of carrying out the activities under Component 2 of the Project, the
Borrower shall cause the Region of Cusco to procure — jointly with the Municipalities of
Calca, Urubamba and Cusco (as the case may be), in accordance with the Procurement
Guidelines, the civil works for the development and the subsequent operation and
maintenance of their respective landfills, pursuant to “design, build and operate”
agreements to be subscribed among PER Plan COPESCO, on behalf of the Region of
Cusco, the respective Municipality where the landfill is located, and the winning
constructor/landfill concessionaire; each such contract to be prior-reviewed and subject to
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.

Safeguards
The Borrower shall cause the Region of Cusco, acting through PER Plan COPESCO, to:

(a) carry out the Project in accordance/compliance with the Environmental and
Social Impact Assessments (“ESIAs”), the Environmental and Social

-jl-
Management Plans (“ESMPs”), the Environmental and Social Management
Framework (“ESMF”), and the instruments to be prepared pursuant to paragraph
2 of this Sub-Section, and pursuant to the objectives, policies, procedures, time
schedules, compensation arrangements and other provisions set forth therein, in a
manner and substance satisfactory to the Bank; and

(b) refrain from taking any action which would prevent or interfere with the
implementation of the Safeguard Documents, including any amendment,
suspension, waiver, and/or voidance of any provision of the Safeguard
Documents, whether in whole or in part, without the prior written concurrence of
the Bank.

Without limitation of the provision of the foregoing paragraph 1, the Borrower shall
cause the Region of Cusco (acting through PER Plan COPESCO) to refrain from inviting
bids, and/or selecting any contractors, for the activities to be implemented under
Components | and 3 of the Project, until and unless: (a) detailed environmental and
social impact assessments for the respective activities have been carried out pursuant to
provisions of the ESMF, in a manner and substance acceptable to the Bank; and (b)
whenever prescribed by the ESMF, the necessary environmental and social management
plans (including indigenous peoples plans, resettlement action plans and chance finding
procedures) have been prepared, reviewed and agreed with the Bank and locally
disclosed for free and public consultation in local languages.

The Borrower shall cause the Region of Cusco, acting through PER Plan COPESCO, to
ensure that, prior to the bidding of civil works contracts under the Project:

(a) all necessary governmental permits and clearances for such civil works, shall
have been obtained from the competent governmental authority/ies and submitted
to the Bank;

(b) all conditions imposed by the governmental authority/ies under such permit(s) or

clearance(s) shall have been complied with/fulfilled;

(c) all resettlement measures set forth in the applicable Safeguard Documents for
such civil works shall have been fully executed, including the full payment of
compensation prior to displacement and/or the provision of relocation assistance
to all Displaced Persons, as per the entitlements provided in the ESMPs and or
the resettlement action plans prepared pursuant to the forgoing paragraph 2;

(d) all land acquisition required for such civil works shall have been concluded and
such land shall be free of encumbrances and ready to be handed over to the
winning bidder; and

(e) for purposes of each individual landfill under Component 2 of the Project, an
individual trust fund (fideicomiso) for the financing of the operation and
maintenance of such landfill shall have been established jointly by the Region of
Cusco and the respective municipal government of Calca, Urubamba or Cusco,

-12-
as the case may be, for the benefit of the landfill operator, all under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank.

The Borrower shall cause the Region of Cusco (acting through PER Plan COPESCO) to
ensure that each contract for civil works under the Project includes the obligation of the
relevant contractor to comply with the relevant Safeguard Documents applicable to such
civil works commissioned/awarded pursuant to said contract.

Without limitation to Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall cause the
Region of Cusco (acting through PER Plan COPESCO) to ensure that the following
Project expenditures are financed exclusively out of the Region of Cusco’s own
resources, and, to this end, shall cause the Region of Cusco to provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, services, facilities and other resources required therefor, namely:

(a) all land acquisition required for the purpose of the Project; and

(b) any compensation, resettlement and rehabilitation payment to Displaced Persons
in accordance with the ESMPs and or the resettlement action plans prepared
pursuant to the forgoing paragraph 2.

For purposes of Component 3 of the Project, the Borrower shall cause the Region of
Cusco (acting through PER Plan COPESCO) to:

(a) ensure that the terms of reference of any consultancy contract entered under such
Component shall be satisfactory to the Bank, following its review thereof, and to
that end, such terms of reference shall duly incorporate the requirement of the
Bank’s Safeguards Policies then in force, as applied to the advice conveyed
through such technical assistance; and

(b) refrain from carrying out any activity (whether an investment or
technical/engineering design), that in the opinion of the Bank, might involve: (1)
the use of an International Waterway in a manner that could adversely: (A)
change the quality or quantity of water flows to the other riparians; or (B) affect
the other riparians' possible water use; and/or (11) the potential pollution of an
International Waterway.

Grievance Mechanism

The Borrower shall cause the Region of Cusco (acting through PER Plan COPESCO) to
strengthen by no later than sixty (60) days as of the Effective Date, and thereafter
maintain and operate throughout the period of implementation of Project activities, a
grievance redressal mechanism satisfactory to the Bank, in order to address in a timely,
transparent and independent manner, any grievance complaints in relation to the Project
filed by any third parties (including, but not limited to, any Displaced Persons) in relation
to the implementation of Project activities by PER Plan COPESCO (on behalf of the
Region of Cusco) and or any of its consultants and/or contractors, and their adherence to,
and compliance with, the respective ESIAs, ESMPs, ESMF and/or any Safeguard
Documents prepared thereunder.

-|3-
Section I. Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation

A. Project Reports

l. The Borrower shall cause the Region of Cusco, acting through PER Plan COPESCO, to
monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the
basis of the indicators set forth in the Project Operations Manual. Each Project Report
shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not
later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such report.

2. The Borrower shall cause the Region of Cusco, acting through PER Plan COPESCO, to
prepare and furnish to the Bank by no later than six (6) months after the Closing Date,
the report on the execution of the Project set forth in Section 5.08 (c) of the General

Conditions.
B. Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. The Borrower shall maintain, and cause the Region of Cusco (acting through PER Plan

COPESCO) to maintain, a financial management system in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions.

2. Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall cause
the Region of Cusco (acting through PER Plan COPESCO) to prepare and furnish to the
Bank, as part of the Project Report after the end of each calendar semester, interim
financial reports for the Project covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory
to the Bank.

3. The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements, and cause the Region of Cusco (acting
through PER Plan COPESCO) to have its Financial Statements, audited in accordance
with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower and the
Region of Cusco, commencing with the fiscal year in which the first withdrawal was
made. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the
Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.

4. For purposes of paragraph 3 above, the Borrower shall select and contract, by no later
than six (6) months as of the Effective Date, and thereafter maintain, throughout the
implementation of the Project, the services of a qualified and experienced auditor,
acceptable to the Bank, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, to serve as
independent external auditor for a period of at least three (3) consecutive years.

-14-
Section III. Procurement

A.

I.

General

Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. All goods, works and non-consulting
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.

Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and
with the provisions of this Section.

Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to
the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the Procurement Guidelines,
or Sections II, II], [1V and V of the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.

Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services

International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2
below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.

Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. The
following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used for
procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for those contracts specified
in the Procurement Plan:

Procurement Methods:
(a) Limited International Bidding.

(b) National Competitive Bidding subject to the additional provisions set forth in
paragraph 3 below.

(c) Shopping.
(d) Direct Contracting.

(e) Procurement under Public Private Partnership Arrangements in accordance with
procedures which have been found acceptable to the Bank.

(f) Force Account.

 

Special Provisions for National Competitive Bidding. In addition and without
limitation or restriction to any other provisions set forth in this Section or the
Procurement Guidelines, the following provisions shall govern the procurement of goods,

-|5-
works and non-consulting services with National Competitive Bidding procedures under
this Section:

(a) foreign bidders shall not be required to be locally registered as a condition of
participation in the selection process;

(b) no reference value (precio referencial) shall be required for publication in the
bidding documents or used for the purpose of bid evaluation;

(c) award of contracts shall be based exclusively on price and, whenever appropriate,
shall take into account factors that can be quantified objectively, and the
procedure for such quantification shall be disclosed in the invitation to bid;

(d) foreign bidders shall be allowed to participate in National Competitive Biddings
without restriction, and shall not be subject to any unjustified requirement which
will affect their ability to bid such as, but not limited to, the requirement to
authenticate (/egalizar) their bidding documents or any document related to such
bidding documents with either Peruvian Consulates, the Borrower’s Ministry of
Foreign Affairs, or any Peruvian authorities as a prerequisite of bidding; and

(e) the Region of Cusco, acting through PER Plan COPESCO, shall use standard
bidding documents and standard evaluation formats; all satisfactory to the Bank.

Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,

consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality
and Cost-based Selection.

Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following methods,
other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for procurement of
consultants’ services for those contracts which are specified in the Procurement Plan:

      
   
     
   
     
 

Procurement Methods:

(a) Quality-based Selection.

(b) Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications.
(c) Selection under a Fixed Budget.

(d) Least Cost Selection.

(e) Single-source Selection of consulting firms.

(f) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for the
Selection of Individual Consultants.

   

(g) Single-source procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants.

-16-
3. In addition and without limitation or restriction to any other provisions set forth in this
Section or the Consultant Guidelines, the following provisions shall govern all
procurement of consultants’ services:

(a) foreign consultants shall not be required to be locally registered as a condition of
participation in the selection process;

(b) foreign consultants shall not be required to authenticate (/egalizar) any
documentation related to their participation in the selection process with Peruvian
Consulates, the Borrower’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs, or any Peruvian
authorities as a condition of participation in said selection process;

(c) the Region of Cusco, acting through PER Plan COPESCO, shall use standard
requests for proposals and standard evaluation formats; all satisfactory to the
Bank;

(d) foreign consultants, either individuals or firms, shall not be required to pay fees
to the Peruvian Consultants’ Association that are different from those required
for Peruvian consultants; and

(e) No individual consultant financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall, at the
time he or she is carrying out his or her contractual obligations as consultant,
hold civil service office or any other position in any agency or instrumentality of
the Borrower, nor shall such consultant have any right to re-entry into any such
office or position upon the conclusion of his or her consulting services.

D. Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s
Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.

Section IV. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. General

l. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World Bank
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by
the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to
finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.

2. The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible
Expenditures in each Category.

-|7-
   
    
 

   
    
   

   

Amount of the Loan
Allocated

Category Percentage of

Expenditures to be
(expressed in USD) financed

15,916,647 100%
2,868,750 100%

13,821,707 100%
1,917,464 100%

475,432 100%

  
  
 
     
   
   
   
   
   
     
  

  
 
  
   

(1) Goods, works, non-consulting
services, consultants’ services
(except for the technical
assistance to private small and
micro enterprise under the
pilot competitive fund under
Component 1.2 of the
Project), and Training and
Workshops under Component

1 of the Project.

  
     
 
     
   
    
  

Goods, non-consulting
services, consultants’
services provided as
technical assistance to private
small and micro enterprise
under the pilot competitive
fund of Component |.2 of the
Project.

  

  
     
   
   

Goods, works, non-consulting
services, consultants’
services, and Training and
Workshops under Component
2 of the Project.

 
   
     
  

Goods, works, non-consulting
services, consultants’
services, and Training and
Workshops under Component
3 of the Project.

  
    
     
   
 

  

Goods, non-consulting
services, consultants’
services, Training and
Workshops and Incremental
Operating Costs, including
financial audits under
Component 4 of the Project.

TOTAL AMOUNT 35,000,000 BP

  
 
     
  

 
  

  

 
 

-18-
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made:

(a) from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-
end Fee; or

(b) under Category (2) unless and until, the PER Plan COPESCO has prepared and
adopted a CF Implementation Manual for the pilot competitive fund (fondo

concursable) in a manner and substance satisfactory to the Bank.

The Closing Date is January 31, 2019.

-19-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule

l. The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment
Date (“Installment Share”). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b)
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule,

to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Installment Share
Expressed as a Percentage

20%

Principal Payment Date

    
      

   

On each April 15 and October 15
Beginning October 15, 2018
through October 15, 2020

   

2. If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:

(a) To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.

(b) Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original
Installment Share’) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.

3. (a) Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.

-20-
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of
such billing system.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.

If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the

provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.

-?|-
APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

1.

“Abbreviated Resettlement Plans” means, collectively, the resettlement plans dated July
2013, (acceptable to the Bank) prepared and adopted by PER Plan COPESCO in relation
to the proposed construction of the solid waste landfills to be located in the Provinces of
Calca and Cusco, respectively (Component 2 of the Project), included as Annex 8 to the
ESMF, and defining the protocols and procedures to ensure the payment of compensation
at full replacement costs and/or the provision of resettlement assistance to Displaced
Persons on account of loss of assets, access restrictions and/or loss of income sources.

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”,
dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.

“Bank’s Safeguards Policies” means the Bank’s operational policies and procedures, set
forth in the Bank’s operational manual and identified as OP/BP 4.01, 4.04, 4.09, 4.10.
4.11, 4.12, 4.36, 4.37, 7.50 and 7.60, as said manual is published under
www. WorldBank.org/opmanual.

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.

“CF Implementation Manual” means the manual to be prepared and adopted by the PER
Plan COPESCO for the implementation of the competitive fund for private small and
micro enterprise, referred to in Component 1.2 of the Project, pursuant to Section I.E.1(a)
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers”
dated January 2011.

“Displaced Persons” means persons who, on account of the execution of the Project, have
experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts caused by: (a) the
involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of shelter; (11) loss of assets
or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources or means of livelihood, whether or not
such persons must move to another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to
legally designated parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impact on the
livelihoods of such persons.

“Environmental and Social Impact Assessments” and the acronym “ESIAs” mean,
collectively, the social and environmental impact assessments dated July 2013 and June
2013 (acceptable to the Bank), prepared by PER Plan COPESCO, in relation to the
proposed construction of the solid wastes landfills to be located in the Provinces of
Calca, Urubamba and Cusco, respectively, which assessments evaluate the likely positive
and negative environmental and social impact of Project activities; as the same may be

-22-
11.

12.

13.

revised, updated or supplemented from time to time with the prior written concurrence of
the Bank.

“Environmental and Social Management Framework” and the acronym “ESMF” means
policy framework dated July 2013 (acceptable to the Bank), prepared and adopted by
PER Plan COPESCO in respect of the proposed activities under the Project (other than
the activities under Component 2 (i) of the Project), setting out the criteria and
procedures for: (i) the screening of Project activities pursuant to Section 1.G.2 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and the identification of any adverse and positive
environmental and social impacts caused, or expected to be caused, on account of their
implementation (including protocols chance finding of cultural/historical assets/artifacts);
and (ii) the preparation, when necessary, of the respective ad hoc environmental and
social management plans as prescribed in the above referred Section. The ESMF
includes the Indigenous Peoples’ Planning Framework and the Resettlement Policy
Framework, and may be revised, updated or supplemented, from time to time, subject to
the prior written concurrence of the Bank.

“Environmental and Social Management Plans” and the acronym “ESMPs” mean,
collectively, the environmental and social managements plans dated July, 2013
(acceptable to the Bank), prepared and adopted by PER Plan COPESCO in respect of the
proposed construction of the solid waste landfills to be located in the Provinces of Calca,
Urubamba and Cusco, respectively, setting out mitigation, enhancement, monitoring
and/or institutional measures, required to: (i) eliminate any adverse environmental and
social impact of the respective activities; (11) offset them, or reduce them to acceptable
levels; and/or (iii) enhance any positive impacts thereof (including chance finding
protocols for the handling of physical cultural resources, and when applicable the
Indigenous Peoples Plans, the Abbreviated Resettlement Plans and the Social Inclusion
Plan); as such plans may be revised, updated or supplemented from time to time with the
prior written concurrence of the Bank.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.

“Incremental Operating Costs” the reasonable incremental expenses incurred on account
of Project management and monitoring (which expenditures would not have been
incurred absent the Project), including, but not limited to: salaries of contractual staff
(other than consultants), office rental, office supplies, utilities, insurance (excluding life
insurance), communications expenses, operation and maintenance of offices, vehicles,
equipment and computers, supervision costs such as travel costs, lodging, and per diems,
advertising expensed and bank charges, media projections, newspaper subscriptions,
periodicals, and stationary costs; but excluding salaries and salary top-ups of the
Borrower’s civil servants.

“Indigenous Peoples” means any distinct, vulnerable, social and cultural group within the
territory of the Borrower, that: (i) self-identifies as such and claims, and is recognized by
others as, having a distinguishable cultural identity; (ii) has collective attachment to
geographically distinct habitats or ancestral territories in the Project area and to the

-23-
19.

20.

natural resources in these habitats and territories; and (iii) has customary cultural,
economic social and political institutions that are separate from those of the dominant
society and culture; and (iv) has an indigenous language, often different from the official
language of the Borrower or region.

“Indigenous Peoples Plans” means, collectively, the plans dated August 2013 (acceptable
to the Bank), prepared and adopted by PER Plan COPESCO in respect of the proposed
construction of the solid wastes landfills to be located in the Provinces of Calca and
Urubamba, respectively (and included in the ESMPs), setting out the measures designed
to ensure meaningful consultation with, and informed participation of, Indigenous
Peoples and their communities affected by the Project, as well as their participation in the
benefits derived from the Project in a culturally appropriate and socially inclusive
manner; as such plans may be revised, updated or supplemented from time to time with
the prior concurrence of the Bank.

“Indigenous Peoples’ Planning Framework” means the policy framework dated July 2013
(acceptable to the Bank), prepared and adopted by PER Plan COPESCO in respect of the
proposed activities under the Project (other than activities under Component 2 (i) of the
Project), and included in the ESMF, setting out the criteria and procedures for the
screening of Project activities to assess the presence of Indigenous Peoples in the selected
Project sites or the areas of influence of Project activities, as well as the procedures for
the preparation of ad hoc indigenous peoples plans in order to ensure meaningful
consultation with, and informed participation of, Indigenous Peoples and _ their
communities affected by the Project, including their participation in the benefits derived
from the Project in a culturally appropriate and socially inclusive manner.

“International Waterway” means: (a) any river, canal, lake, or similar body of water that
form a boundary between, or any river or body of surface water that flows through, two
or more countries; (b) any tributary or other body of surface water that is a component of
any waterway described in (a) above; and (c) any bay, gulf, strait, or channel bounded by
two or more countries, or, if within one country, recognized as a necessary channel of
communication between the open sea and other countries, and any river flowing into such
waters.

“MEF” means the Ministry of Economy and Finance of the Borrower, or any successor
thereto.

“Qllantaytambo” means the Borrower’s District of Ollantaytambo in the Province of
Urubamba, Region of Cusco.

“PCC” means the Project Coordination Committee referred to in Section [.B.1(a) of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“PER Plan COPESCO” means the special commission established by the Borrower
pursuant to Supreme Decree No. 001-69-IC/DS, dated April 25, 1969, under the auspices
of the Borrower’s Ministry of Industry and Tourism, for the supervision of the touristic
and cultural plan PERU-UNESCO, and subsequently transferred to the Region of Cusco
pursuant to the Borrower’s Supreme Decree No. 074-2004-PCM of October 24, 2004.

-24.
21.

22.

23.

24.

25.

26.

27.

28.

29.

“Pisaq’” means the Borrower’s District of Pisag in the Province of Calca.

“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and
Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers” dated January 2011.

“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, dated
August 9, 2013 in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of
the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance
with the provisions of said paragraphs.

“Project Operations Manual” means the manual to be adopted by PER Plan COPESCO,
pursuant to Section 5.01(b) of this Agreement setting forth the guidelines and procedures
for the implementation of the Project, including: (i) the allocation of functions, powers,
and responsibilities between the PCC and the Technical Working Groups; (ii) the
financial management arrangements, activity planning and budgetary procedures; (iii) the
mechanism to ensure compliance with procurement requirement and the Safeguards
Documents; and (iv) the monitoring and evaluation and __ reporting
requirements/framework for Project activities; as said manual may be amended from time
to time subject to the prior concurrence of the Bank.

“Provinces of Calca, Urubamba and Cusco” means the provinces (administrative
subdivision) of Calca, Urubamba and Cusco pertaining to the Region of Cusco, or the
respective successors thereto.

“Region of Cusco” means the Borrower’s politically, economically and administratively
autonomous Region of Cusco, established/acknowledged under Chapter XIV (on
Decentralization) of the Political Constitution of the Republic of Peru, as modified
pursuant to Law 27680 of March 7, 2002, or any successor thereto.

“Resettlement Policy Framework” means the policy framework dated July 2013 prepared
and adopted by PER Plan COPESCO in respect of the proposed activities under the
Project (other than activities under Component 2 (1) of the Project), setting out the criteria
and procedures for: (1) the screening of Project activities pursuant to Section I.G.2 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and the identification of any Displaced Persons on account
of their implementation; and (ii) the preparation of the respective resettlement action
plans as prescribed in the above referred Section, defining protocols and procedures to
ensure the payment of compensation at full replacement cost, and/or the provision of
resettlement, assistance to Displaced Persons; as such framework may be revised,
updated or supplemented, from time to time, subject to the prior written concurrence of
the Bank.

“Sacred Valley” means the valley of the Urubamba river between Ollantaytambo and
Pisag located within the Region of Cusco.

“Safeguard Documents” means, collectively, the ESIAs, the ESMPs, the ESMF, the
Indigenous Peoples Plans, the Abbreviated Resettlement Plans, the Social Inclusion Plan

-25-
30.

31.

32.

33.

34,

and the documents/instruments (to be) prepared pursuant to paragraph 2 of Section I.G of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

‘Social Inclusion Plan” means the management plan dated June 2013 (acceptable to the
Bank), prepared and adopted by PER Plan COPESCO in respect of the implementation of
Component 2 of the Project, setting out measures to assist economically displaced waste
pickers in their efforts to improve their working conditions and increase their income.

‘‘Sub-project Agreement” means each and any of the written agreements to be entered
into by PER Plan COPESCO, on behalf of the Region of Cusco, and selected, private
small and micro enterprise pursuant to Section I.E.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.A.1 of Schedule 2
to this Agreement.

“Technical Working Groups” means, collectively, the technical working groups referred
to in Section I.B.1(b) of the Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Training and Workshops” means the reasonable expenditures (other than consultants’
and non-consulting services) incurred by the Borrower for the carrying out of training
activities, and/or study tours, conferences and workshops conducted and/or attended by
PER Plan COPESCO’s staff and/or the Project’s stakeholders, including reasonable costs
of purchase and printing/publication of materials, rental of training facilities,
course/registration fees, travel, subsistence, and per diem for trainers and trainees.

-26-
