Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

 

Mt ce arene

 

 

LOAN NUMBER 8377-GE

Loan Agreement

(Transmission Grid Strengthening Project)
between
GEORGIA
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated September 3 = 2014

 

 
LOAN NUMBER 8377-GE
LOAN AGREEMENT

Agreement dated Seplembex 3 , 2014, between GEORGIA
(“Borrower”) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01. The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

1.02. Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.

ARTICLE lf — LOAN

2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of sixty million United States Dollars
(US$60,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to
this Agreement (“Project”).

2,02. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

2.03. The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.

2.04. The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.

2.05. The Payment Dates are May | and November | in each year.
2.06. The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

2.07. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and

outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread: and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.

(b) Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the

' provisions of Article 1V of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.

(c) Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section I'V of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE Il — PROJECT

3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall carry out Part C of the Project through the Ministry of
Environment and Natural Resources’ Protection and the Ministry of Energy and
cause Parts A, B, and D of the Project to be carried out by the Project
Implementing Entity, in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and the Project Agreement.
3.02.

4.01,

4.02.

5.01.

5.02.

5.03.

Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK

The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that the
Project Implementing Entity’s Legislation has been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability
of the Project Implementing Entity to perform any of its obligations under the
Project Agreement.

The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that the
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a
period of ninety (90) days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to
the Borrower.

ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:

(a) The Subsidiary Agreement has been executed by the Ministry of
Finance, Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources’ Protection and
the Ministry of Energy on behalf of the Borrower and the Project
Implementing Entity.

(b) The Project Implementing Entity has submitted to the Bank the
Operational Manual, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.

The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely that the
Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and
the Project Implementing Entity and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the
Project Implementing Entity, in accordance with its terms.

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and twenty (120) days after
the date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance.
6.02. The Borrower’s Address is:
Ministry of Finance
16 Gorgasali Street
0114 Tbilisi
Georgia
Facsimile:
995-32-2261461
6.03. The Bank’s Address is:
international Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America

Cable address: Telex: Facsimile:

INTBAFRAD 248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 64145(MCI)
AGREED at Tbilisi, Georgia. as of the day and year first above written.

GEORGIA

By

   

Authorizéd Representative

Name: Od Wf Bad Uti
Title: LY inis a of huge Cé.

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

Authorized Representative
Name: Leney Keeat
Title: REONAC Dua.
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description

The objectives of the Project are to provide reliable power transmission to the
southwestem part of the grid, upgrade electricity exchange systems, and provide
economically efficient, environmentally and socially sustainable electricity sector
planning.

The Project consists of the following parts:

Part A: Transmission System Strengthening

Construction of a high voltage transmission line from Akhaltsikhe to Batumi,
through: (1) the supply and installation of a double-circuit, 220 kV transmission line from
Akhaltsikhe back-to-back and 500/400/220 kV substation (Akhaltsikhe station) to Batumi
220 kV substation; and (2) the supervision of the supply and installation of the
Akhaltsikhe Batumi transmission line; and through the carrying out of works and
provision of goods and consultants’ services.

Part B: Wholesale Power Exchange Platform

Design, supply and installation of a power exchange platform including: (1) the
provision of hardware and software for metering, balancing, and trading systems; and (2)
the supervision of the supply and installation of the said platform through the carrying out
of small works and provision of goods and consultants” services.

Part C: Electricity Sector Strategic Environmental and Social Assessment

Preparation of an electricity sector strategic environmental and social assessment
through the provision of consultants’ services.

Part D: Project Management and Transmission Systems Studies

Provision of consultants’ services to assist the Project Implementing Entity for the
purposes of: (1) effective management and implementation of Project activities, and (2)
the preparation of: (a) a new transmission-system expansion plan; (b) prospective
transmission line feasibility studies; and (c) the preliminary designs for the prospective
transmission lines.
A.

SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Section I. Implementation Arrangements

Institutional Arrangements

The Borrower shall: (a) cause the Project Implementing Entity to carry out Parts
A, B and D of the Project in accordance with this Agreement, the Project
Agreement, the Subsidiary Agreement and the Project Operational Manual and
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any provision of said Manual without
the prior written approval of the Bank; and (b) carry out Part C of the Project
through the Ministry of Energy and the Ministry of Environment and Natural
Resources’ Protection, in accordance with this Agreement. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, and for the purpose of carrying out Part C of the Project, the Ministry
of Energy and the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources’ Protection
shall jointly review and approve the terms of reference for carrying out the
electricity sector strategic environmental and social assessment and thereafter
jointly review and approve the said assessment.

For the purposes of assisting the Project Implementing Entity in the
implementation of Parts A, B and D of the Project, and in order to ensure the
proper coordination of the execution of the Project, the Borrower shall cause the
Project Implementing Entity to: (a) maintain throughout the duration of the
Project, adequate resources and facilities, and professional staff in adequate
numbers whose qualifications, experience and terms of reference shall be
acceptable to the Bank: and (b) assist the Ministry of Energy and the Ministry of
Environment and Natural Resources’ Protection in processing the procurement
for Part C of the Project in accordance with implementation arrangements
satisfactory to the Bank.

Subsidiary Agreement

To facilitate the carrying out of the Project Implementing Entity’s Respective
Parts A, B and D of the Project, the Borrower shall make part of the proceeds of
the Loan available to the Project Implementing Entity under a subsidiary
agreement between the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Environment and
Natural Resources’ Protection and the Ministry of Energy on behalf of the
Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity, under terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank (“Subsidiary Agreement”) which shall include, without
limitation the following terms and conditions:
(a) The Project Implementing Entity shall utilize the proceeds of the Loan in
accordance with this Agreement and the Project Agreement; and

(b) The Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources’ Protection and the
Ministry of Energy shall carry out Part C of the Project and for that
purpose shall be assisted by the Project Implementing Entity in the
procurement process related thereto.

The Borrower shall exercise ifs rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary
Agreement or any of its provisions.

Anti-Corruption

The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.

Safeguards

The Borrower shall, and shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to, carry out
the Project in accordance with the requirements, criteria, organizational
arrangements and operational procedures set forth in the ESIA report, ESMP,
RPF and RAP(s), and shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the ESIA
report, ESMP, RPF and/or RAP(s) or any provision thereof, without prior
approval of the Bank.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, prior to the issuance of the bidding documents
for any contract for works under the Project, the Borrower shall, and shall cause
the Project Implementing Entity to:

(a) prepare an updated ESMP, if necessary in case of changes in the
transmission lines location, satisfactory to the Bank, which shall be
disclosed in accordance with the ESIA Report and Bank’s applicable
policies; and

(b) submit to the Bank for its prior approval: (i) the proposed design and site
for said works; and (ii) the proposed contract for said works to ensure
that the provisions of the ESIA Report, the RPF and the ESMP are
adequately included in said contract; and

The Borrower shall, and shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to ensure
that: (i) such works are carried out in accordance with the ESIA Report, RPF,
a

ESMP and respective RAP; (1i) all necessary actions are taken to minimize, to the
extent possible, any involuntary loss by Affected Persons of shelter, productive
assets or access to productive assets or income or means of livelihood,
temporarily or permanently; (iti) all rights to land, usufructs or customary rights
and other property are allocated or acquired, equitable compensation thereof is
paid and resettlement is carried out in accordance with the principles and
institutional procedures established in the RAP(s); (iv) Affected Persons are
equitably compensated, resettled and rehabilitated in accordance with the
RAP(s); (v) the implementation arrangements for resettlement. including
compensation, relocation and rehabilitation of Affected Persons are documented;
and (vi) the implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the RAP(s) is
completed and reported in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.

The Borrower shall ensure that the Project Implementing Entity shall not
commence any works for a specific Project site requiring resettlement and/or
land acquisition under the Project until the respective RAP is fully implemented.

The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to ensure that
transmission lines built under the Project will not encroach upon any specially
protected natural areas.

The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to establish and
implement, throughout the Project implementation, an easily accessible grievance
redress mechanism, acceptable to the Bank, to address feedback and grievances
relating to the Project.

Section IT. Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

A.

Project Reports

The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to monitor and
evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports, in accordance
with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of
indicators acceptable to the Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the period of
one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than one
month after the end of the period covered by such report.

Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
The Borrower shal! maintain, or cause to be maintained, a financial management

system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.
-1Q-

The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to prepare and furnish
to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar
quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter,
in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.

The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity:to have the Financial
Statements audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the
General Conditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the
period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for
each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the
end of such period.

Section ITI. Procurement

General

Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section | of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.

Consultants’ Services. Ai] consultants’ services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections | and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.

Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and IH of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections Il, II], 1V and V of the Consultant
Guidelines, as the case may be.

Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services

International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.

Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding,
may be used for procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for
those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan:
-l)}-

Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional provisions set forth
in below:

   
       
       
     
       
   
     
   
  
   
   
       
   
   
  
       
 
     
  
 
      
   
   
  

(i) “Open competitive procedures” (i.e. “public tender”) shall be
the default rule. A single envelope procedyre shall be used for
the submission of goods, works, or non-consulting services.

(ii) Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely
circulated national daily newspaper allowing a minimum of
thirty (30) days for the preparation and submission of bids.

Advertisements published in foreign language newspapers shall

be in compliance with such a 30-day-minimum in number of

days for bids preparation and submission.

   

Bidding shall not be restricted to pre-registered firms. If
registration is required, it shall not be denied to eligible bidders
for reasons unrelated to their capacity and resources to
successfully perform the contract (e.g., mandatory membership
in professional organizations, classification, etc). Post-
qualification shall be conducted to verify that the bidder has the
capability and resources to successfully perform the contract.

  

Govemment-owned enterprises in Georgia shall be eligible to
participate in bidding only if they can establish that they are
legally and financially autonomous, operate under commercial
law and are not a dependent agency of the Government.
Government-owned enterprises will be subject to the same bid
and performance security requirements as other bidders.

  

Procuring entities shall use the appropriate Bank’s sample
bidding documents, including pre-qualification documents, for
the procurement of goods, works, or non-consulting services,
and such documents shall contain draft contract and conditions
of contract including clauses on fraud and corruption, audit and
publication of award, all acceptable to the Bank.

Bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline
for submission of bids. Bidder’s representatives shall be
permitted to attend the bid opening.

      
   
  
     

  

Extension of bid validity shall be allowed once only for not
more than thirty (30) days. No further extensions should be
requested without the prior approval of the Bank.
od

(viii)

(ix)

(x)

(b) Shopping

Procurement Method

Evaluation of bids shall be based on quantifiable criteria |
expressed in monetary terms as defined in the bidding
documents, no merit point system and no domestic preference
shall be used in the evaluation of bids. Contracts shall be
awarded to qualified bidders having submitted the lowest
evaluated substantially responsive bid and no negotiations shail
be carried out prior to contract award.

Civil works contracts of long duration (e.g. more than cighteen
(18) months) shall contain an appropriate price adjustinent
clause.

No bid shall be rejected purely on the basis that the bid price is
higher than the estimated budget for that procurement. All bids
shall not be rejected and new bids solicited without the Bank’s
prior concurrence.

(c) Direct Contracting

Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services

Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.

Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants’ services for those contracts which are specified in
the Procurement Plan:

Procurement Method

(a) Quality-Based Selection

(b) Selection under a Fixed Budget

(c) Least Cost Selection

(d) Selection Based on ConsuJtants’ Qualifications

 

 
A,

-13-

Procurement Method
(e) Single-Source Selection of consulting firms

(f) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines
for the Selection of Individual Consultants

(g) Single-source procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants

 

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank’s Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.

Section IV. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

 

General

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article I] of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.

The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
- 14.

 
  
  
 
  

  
    
       
    
   
  
   

  
  

Percentage of
Amount of the Loan Expenditures to be
Allocated financed

     

Category (expressed in USD) (inclusive of Taxes)

 
  
 

(1) Goods, works, non-
consulting services, and
consultants’ services for
Part A of the Project

  
 
 

52,350,000 J 100%

6,500,000 80%

(3) Consultants’ services - 1,000,000 | 80%
for Part C of the Project

(4) Front-end Fee 150,000 Amount payable
pursuant to Section
2.03 of this ,
Agreement in
accordance with
Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions

(5) Interest Rate Cap or Amount due pursuant
Interest Rate Collar to Section 2.07(c) of
premium this Agreement

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

  
 

  
      

   

(2) Goods, small works,
non-consulting services,
and consultants’ services
for Parts B and D of the
Project

  
    
     

  
 

   

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.

The Closing Date is March 31, 2019.
-15-

SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date (“Installment Share”). If the proceeds of the’Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.

  
 
 

  
 

Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)

   

Principal Payment Date

   

On each May | and November |

 
      
 

Beginning November |, 2024
through November |, 2038

On May I, 2039

If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:

      

(a) To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1
of this Schedule.

(b) Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”)
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
-16-

amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.

(a) Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.

(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if

| at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs | and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.

If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount. .

 
SSAA A AEM IRIN EMEA CE Ae. AMMAR

-17-

APPENDIX
. Definitions

“Affected Person” means a person who on account of the acquisition of land for
purposes of establishing relocation sites under Parts A and Bof the Project had or
would have his or her: (i) standard of living adversely affected; or (ii) right, title
or interest in any house, or interest in or right to use any land (including premises
and agricultural Jand) or right in ‘annual or perennial crops and trees or any other
fixed or movable asset, acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently; or
(iii) business, occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely
affected, temporarily or permanently, and “Affected Persons” means,
collectively, all persons who qualify as an Affected Person.

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section |V of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.

“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers” dated January 2011.

“ESIA Report” means the Borrower’s environmental and social impact
assessment report, acceptable to the Bank dated April 4, 2014, consisting of inter
alia: (i) a description of the site where construction activities are to be carried out
under the Project and the justification for said activities; (ii) the actual or
potential environmental and/or social impact of the construction activities
referred to under sub-paragraph (i) above; and (iii) an environmental and social
management plan setting forth adequate mitigating measures and systems
required to monitor the implementation of the construction activities referred to
under sub-paragraph (i) above and to ensure compliance of such activities with
said measures with a view to limiting any actual and potential adverse
environmental and/or social impact.

“ESMP” means the Borrower’s environmental and social management plan,
acceptable to the Bank, dated April 4, 2014, which is included the ESIA Report
describing the environmental and social mitigation, monitoring and institutional
measures to be undertaken during the implementation of the Project, and
satisfactory to the Bank.
12.

15.

-18-

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated March 12, 2012.

“Ministry of Energy” means the Borrower's Ministry of Energy or any successor
thereto.

“Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources® Protection” means the
Borrower’s Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources’ Protection or any
successor thereto.

“Operational Manual” means the Project Operational Manual to be adopted by
the Project Implementing Entity pursuant to Section 5.01(b) of this Agreement,
setting forth the operational, administrative and fiduciary responsibilities,
procedures and rules for the implementation of the Project, data collection and
reporting, and which includes a manual of financial management procedures that
sets out procedures for Project accounting, reporting and audit, disbursements,
flow of funds and management of the designated accounts as the same may be
amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank.

“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers” dated January 2011.

“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project,
dated April 7, 2014 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.

“Project Implementing Entity” means the Georgian State Electrosystem, a joint
stock company established pursuant to Order No. 1-3/810 of the Ministry of State
Property Management of Georgia dated November 8, 2002.

“Project Implementing Entity’s Legislation” means Order No. 1-3/810 of the
Ministry of State Property Management of Georgia, dated November 8, 2002
registered by the Resolution of Vake-Saburtalo district court on November 12,
2002 and operating by virtue of perpetual electricity transmission license No.1 2-
004 and dispatching license No.13-004 obtained on December 20, 2002.

“RAP(s)” means the Borrower’s resettlement action plan(s) satisfactory to the
Bank, to be prepared and implemented for carrying out the Project in accordance
with the RPF (as hereinafter defined), to set out, inter alia, the principles and
objectives of the RAP(s), the affected persons’ eligibility criteria, compensation,
assistance and rehabilitation entitlements, as well as the monitoring and reporting
arrangements in conformity with the RPF. |
‘ah.

16,

~ 19- -

“RPF™ means the Borrower’s resettlement policy framework, satisfactory to the
Bank, dated April 4, 2014, and referred to in Part D of Section I of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, setting forth, inter alia: (i) the description of areas covered by
the Project; (ii) the legal basis and screening process for land acquisition,
resettlement and land use in connection with the works to,be carried out under
Parts A and B of the Project; (iii) the resettlement principles and entitlements of
Project Affected Persons based on different categories of impact; (iv) the
procedures for valuation, compensation and other assistance provided to the
Affected Persons, including the grievance process; (v) the responsibilities,
procedures and requirements for the development and implementation of specific
resettlement action plans; and (vi) an estimate of the cost of compensation.

“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.B of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make the part
of the proceeds of the Loan available to the Project Implementing Entity.
