Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

 

i =" ~
OFFICIAL

DOCUMENTS
ed

‘ 2 =. ang. a

Vanes

LOAN NUMBER 8361-KZ

Loan Agreement

(Justice Sector Institutional Strengthening Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated Hype ‘7 Lo , 2014
LOAN NUMBER 8361-KZ
LOAN AGREEMENT

Agreement dated (02/729, 2014, between the REPUBLIC OF

KAZAKHSTAN (‘Borrower’) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”). The Borrower and the
Bank hereby agree as follows:

1.01.

1.02.

2.01.

2.02.

2.03.

2.04.

2.05.

ARTICLE I—GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or
in the Appendix to this Agreement.

ARTICLE II—LOAN

The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set
forth or referred to in this Agreement, the amount of thirty-six million Dollars
(USD36,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section
2.07 of this Agreement (‘‘Loan’”), to assist in financing the project described
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (‘‘Project’’).

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-
end Fee not later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date.

The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a
rate equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable
Spread; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the
Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in accordance with
the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan
Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a
period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the Borrower shall
instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General
Conditions.

The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year.
 

2.06.

2.07.

3.01.

3.02.

401.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

(a)

(b)

The Borrower may at any time request any of the following
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent
debt management: (i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or
unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest
rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount
of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate
based on a Reference Rate and the Variable Spread to a Variable
Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the Variable Spread, or
vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn
and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a
Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of ‘limits
on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.

Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section
that is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as
defined in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in
accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General
Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.

ARTICLE I1]—PROJECT

The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To
this end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project, through the Ministry of
Justice, in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions.

Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement,
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV—EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following:
(a) The PIU has been formed under the Ministry of Justice, with terms of
reference, staff, and resources satisfactory to the Bank;

(b) The Implementation Support Group, which shall be a part of the PIU,

has been selected by the Borrower, through the Ministry of Justice;
and

(c) The Borrower, through the Ministry of Justice, has adopted the
Project Operations Manual, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank.

4.02. The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and eighty (180) days
after the date of this Agreement.

ARTICLE V— REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance.
5.02. The Borrower’s Address is:

Ministry of Finance
11 Pobedy Avenue

Astana 010000

Republic of Kazakhstan

Telex: Facsimile:
265126 (FILIN) (7) (7172) 717785

5.03. The Bank’s Address is:

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America

Cable address: Telex: Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 64145(MCI)
AGREED tC Go, ke py bir C Or , as of the day and year first

above written. £020 zL: AS eh

REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN

By

   

Authorized Representative

Name Lakh z Sy llopov

3 Cogs Tee of PrONCE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR

RECONSTRUCTIONAND
DEVELOPMENT

    

Authorized Representative

Name: Sebrem HKL OGG
Title: COunte of Jie GEL
SCHEDULE 1

Project Description

The objectives of the Project are: (a) to strengthen the institutional capacity of
Selected Agencies for effective implementation of selected laws; and (b) to improve
the efficiency, transparency of, and access to selected public services in the justice
sector.

The Project consists of the following parts:

Part A. Strengthening the Implementation of Key Elements of the Legal and
Institutional Framework

1. Provision of consultants’ services and training to strengthen the institutional
capacity of the Ministry of Justice and other Selected Agencies whose
competencies include carrying out government functions under the draft
Commercial Code, the Administrative Offenses Code and the Penal Code,
including through but not limited to: (a) carrying out regulatory and impact
assessments; (b) workshops, training, organizing focus groups, and carrying
out user surveys and other communications and outreach activities for broad
consultations on the Codes; and (c) development of monitoring and
evaluation systems for measuring the effectiveness of the Codes.

2. Provision of consultants’ services, training and goods to support Selected
Agencies with the drafting of a new proposed Law on Self-regulated
Professional Organizations, and associated regulations, including but not
limited to: (a) organizing drafting workshops and training; (b) carrying out
regulatory and impact assessments; (c) organizing focus groups and carrying
out user surveys and other communications and outreach activities for broad
consultations on the drafting of the proposed law and regulations; and (d)
development of monitoring and evaluation systems for measuring the
effectiveness of the proposed law and regulations, once adopted.

3. Provision of consultants’ services, training and goods to the Ministry of
Justice and other Selected Agencies for improvement of the Borrower’s
legislative drafting policies, processes and capacity, including: (a)
coordination and consultation processes across the Borrower’s relevant
government agencies; (b) feedback mechanisms to assess the quality of
legislative drafting; and (c) measures to improve the transparency and
knowledge base for legislative drafting, including establishing and
maintaining a legislative drafting web-based portal for the Ministry of Justice
and other Selected Agencies of the Borrower.
Part B. Improving the Service Quality and Responsiveness of the Ministry of Justice

l.

Provision of consultants’ services, training and goods to the Ministry of
Justice to strengthen its capacity, including but not limited to: (a) carrying out
periodic institutional self-assessments; (b) carrying out annual public surveys
to assess public trust in the Ministry of Justice and other justice institutions of
the Borrower selected pursuant to criteria set forth in the Project Operations
Manual; (c) development and implementation of a comprehensive
performance monitoring framework and indicators and results collection and
reporting; (d) development of a comprehensive communications strategy and
capacity; (e) the development and implementation of an operational roadmap
for the Ministry of Justice; and (f) development of monitoring and evaluation
systems.

Provision of consultants’ services, training and goods to the Ministry of
Justice for improving: (a) the enforcement of judicial decisions of the
Borrower’s courts, (b) carrying out surveys and assessments of efficiency and
transparency in the enforcement of judicial decisions; (c) development of
monitoring and evaluation systems for benchmarking international good
practices as compared to the Borrower’s enforcement practices; (d)
development and piloting of a medium term information systems investment
and modernization strategy; and (e) forensic capability.

Provision of consultants’ services, training and goods for the improvement of
the Borrower’s public registration services under the Ministry of Justice
through, including but not limited to: (a) carrying out institutional
assessments and diagnostics, and supporting implementation of the outcomes
of said assessments and diagnostics; (b) supporting the adoption of
performance indicators; (c) carrying out activities to improve data and
information quality in real estate registration databases; and (d) supporting
the accelerated conversion of paper-based registration records to electronic
format.

Provision of consultants’ services and goods to the Ministry of Justice to
improve access to legal aid through, inter alia: (a) workshops and training on
application of the Law on Free Legal Aid; (b) piloting innovative,
participatory and more efficient ways to provide legal aid and development of
required amendments and enabling regulations to the said Law; (c)
development and operation of a web-based legal aid portal; (d) generation
and publication of feedback from users, providers and other stakeholders; (e)
analysis of service provision by lawyers and notaries; (f) a policy review and
a fiscal impact assessment; and (g) analysis of gender issues in provision of
and access to free legal aid and the preparation of a costed and sequenced
Strategy to address key legal aid-related gender issues, and support for
implementing the strategy.

Provision of consultants’ services for Selected Agencies to develop: (a) a
strategy to facilitate socio-economic re-integration of former offenders,

-6-
including through employment opportunities; and (b) technical specifications
for penitentiaries’ information system to improve connectivity with the courts
and Selected Agencies for more effective case processing.

Part C. Strengthening Judicial Efficiency and Professionalism

1.

Provision of consultants’ services, training and goods to the Supreme Court
and Selected Courts in the following areas:

(a)

(b)

(a)

(b)

Support the Selected Courts, through the provision of consultants’
services, training and goods, to: (i) carry out analyses and
diagnostics, to identify impediments that increase the non-
adjudicative burden on judges; (ii) develop recommendations to
remove such impediments and increase judges’ efficiency; and (ili)
carry out such recommendations in pilot courts.

Strengthen the Supreme Court’s capacity to support and manage the
judiciary through the provision of consultants’ services, training and
goods for: (i) monitoring and evaluation of lower courts
performance; (ii) simplifying and streamlining court procedures; (iii)
developing an action plan to expand access to information on court
functioning for the public and litigants; (iv) facilitating specialization
of courts and judges; (v) strengthening institutional capacity of the
Supreme Court to carry out its administrative and management
functions of the lower courts; (vi) strengthen the capacity of the
Supreme Judicial Council to assess and strengthen judicial
disciplinary processes; and (vii) fostering peer-based knowledge
sharing amongst judges and other justice sector officials.

Support the improvement of the capacity of the Institute of Justice
and Selected Agencies, through the provision of consultants’
services, training and goods for: (i) training judges and judicial staff;
(ii) prepare and carry out institutional assessments, surveys, policy
research, develop strategies and action plans; (iii) the design and
delivery of sensitization training and workshops for judges and other
justice stakeholders on social inclusion and gender issues and on
other challenges affecting vulnerable groups.

Provision of technical support to:

(i) The Institute of Justice for the preparation of a Medium Term
Development Strategy and Action Plan, including a Training
and Infrastructure Needs Assessment;

(ii) The Institute of Justice and Selected Agencies for carrying
out of pilot e-learning courses for judges and judicial staff;
establishment of monitoring system to measure training
impact; launch of appropriate staff development
arrangements to benefit from global knowledge and

-7-
international good practices; and strengthen the Institute’s
applied policy research capacity and focus (including in the
areas of social inclusion, gender, socio-economic re-
integration of former offenders, etc.).

Part D. Project Implementation Coordination, and Fellowships

I.

Provision of consultants’ services, training and Incremental Operating Costs
to the Ministry of Justice to: implement, manage, coordinate, monitor and
evaluate the Project, including hiring of the ISG.

Provision of Fellowship Grants for competitively selected Eligible
Candidates from justice sector agencies to expose them to global knowledge
and international good practices in reform design and implementation
SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Implementation Arrangements

Institutional Arrangements

The Borrower, through the Ministry of Justice, shall:

Section I.
A.
1.
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
B.

maintain throughout the period of implementation of the Project, a
project implementation unit (the “PIU”), headed by a Project
Director, which shall be responsible for overall Project
implementation, and management and _ supervision of the
Implementation Support Group.

no later than seven (7) days from the Date of Effectiveness, or such
other later date as the Borrower and the Bank may agree to in
writing, enter into a consultant services contract with the
Implementation Support Group to support the PIU, on terms of
reference, and with resources and staff, all satisfactory to the Bank,
and shall thereafter maintain the Implementation Support Group as
part of the PIU.

select Eligible Candidates for Fellowship Grants in accordance with
eligibility criteria, selection methods and procedures acceptable to
the Bank, which shall be set forth in the Fellowship Grants Manual,
and shall ensure that the PIU reviews, appraises and evaluates
Eligible Candidates, all in accordance with financial payment, control
and clearance processes, and other provisions acceptable to the Bank
as further set forth in the Project Operations Manual.

ensure that contractual arrangements are entered into in relation to
each Fellowship Grant, in form and substance, and on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include that the
Borrower shall obtain rights adequate to protect its interests and
those of the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Project,
including the right to: (i) suspend or terminate the right of the
Eligible Candidate to be eligible for a Fellowship Grant upon the
Eligible Candidate’s failure to perform any of its obligations under
the relevant contractual arrangements; and (ii) obtain all such
information as the Bank or the Borrower shall reasonably request
relating to the Fellowship Grant.

Project Operations Manual, and Grants Manual

-9-
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Project
Operations Manual, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, said
manual to include, inter alia, the institutional, procurement, financial
management, monitoring and evaluation arrangements for the implementation
of the Project, the responsibilities and coordination arrangements among
Selected Agencies,,.

The Borrower shall ensure that Part D.2 of the Project is carried out in
accordance with the Fellowship Grants Manual, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include inter alia: (a) the selection
methods and eligibility criteria for Eligible Candidates; (b) financial payment,
control and clearance processes; (c) the terms of reference for Fellowship
Grants; and (d) a model agreement for the provision of the Fellowship
Grants.

The Project Operations Manual and/or the Grants Manual may be amended
from time to time with the prior written approval of the Bank. In the case of
any conflict between the terms of the Project Operational Manual or the
Grants Manual and those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement
shall prevail. In case of any conflict between the terms of the Project
Operations Manual and those of the Grants Manual, the terms of the Project
Operations Manual shall prevail.

Anti-Corruption

The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with
the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.

Section II. Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

A.

I.

Project Reports

The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and
prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of
the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the Bank.
Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall
be furnished to the Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of the
period covered by such report.

Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits

The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, a financial
management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the
General Conditions.

The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five
(45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial
reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory
to the Bank.

-10-
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with
the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of
the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the
Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such
period.

Section III. Procurement

A.

l.

General

Goods and Non-consulting Services. All goods and non-consulting
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the
provisions of this Section.

Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in
accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and [IV
of the Consultant Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.

Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of
particular contracts refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II
and III of the Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, Ill, IV and V of the
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.

Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-consulting
Services

International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in
paragraph 2 below, goods and non-consulting services shall be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.

Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-consulting Services.
The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, may
be used for procurement of goods and non-consulting services for those
contracts specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) National Competitive
Bidding, subject to additional provisions set forth in the Attachment to this
Schedule 2; and (b) Shopping.

Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in

paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.

-ll-
2. Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants’ services for those contracts which are specified
in the Procurement Plan: (a) Selection under a Fixed Budget; (b) Least Cost
Selection; (c) Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications; (d) Single-
source Selection; and (e) Selection of Individual Consultants.

D. Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts, which shall be subject
to the Bank’s Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post
Review by the Bank.

Section IV. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. General

1. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable
to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.

2. The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of
the amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures
to be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category:

 
   
  

  
  
   

 
  
    
 

Amount of the Loan Percentage of
Allocated Expenditures to be
(expressed in USD) financed

   

 
     
 
      
 

(1) Consultants’ services,
Training, goods and
Incremental Operating Costs
for the Project (excluding
Fellowship Grants under Part
D.2. of the Project)

(2) Fellowship Grants under
Part D.2. of the Project

35,577,000

       

423,000

-12-

 
 

B. Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

l. Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall
be made:

(a) from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of
the Front-end Fee;

(b) for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement; or

(c) under Category (2), until the Fellowship Grants Manual satisfactory
to the Bank has been adopted by the Borrower, through the Ministry
of Justice.

2. The Closing Date is December 31, 2018.

Section V. Other undertakings

No later than forty-five (45) days from the Effective Date, the Borrower shall cause
the Ministry of Justice to launch a fully operational module for the automated
accounting software for the Project, with capacity to generate interim unaudited
financial reports, and capture Project accounts and commitments, acceptable to the
Bank.

-13-
Attachment
to
SCHEDULE 2

The procurement procedure to be followed for National Competitive Bidding
(“NCB”) shall be the Tender procedure set forth in the Law of the Republic of
Kazakhstan on Public Procurement No. 303-III, dated July 21, 2007, as amended as
of 14 January, 2014 by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Changes in and
Amendments to Several Regulatory Acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on State
Procurement Issues No. 161-V; provided, however, that such procedure shall be
subject to the provisions of Section I and Paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 the “Guidelines for
Procurement of Goods, Works, and Non-Consulting Services under IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits & Grants by World Bank Borrowers” (January 2011) (the “Procurement
Guidelines”) and the following additional! provisions:

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)
(f)

(g)

Eligibility: The eligibility of bidders to participate in a procurement process
and to be awarded a Bank-financed contract shall be as defined under Section
I of the Procurement Guidelines; accordingly, no bidder or potential bidder
shall be declared ineligible for contracts financed by the Bank for reasons
other than those provided in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines. Foreign
bidders shall be allowed to participate in NCB procedures, and shall not be
obligated to partner with local bidders in order to participate in a procurement
process.

Registration: Bidding shall not be restricted to pre-registered firms, and
foreign bidders shall not be required to be registered with local authorities as
a prerequisite for submitting bids.

Preferences: No preference of any kind shall be applied in bid evaluation on
the basis of bidder nationality; origin of goods, services or labor; local
content; citizen degree of ownership; and/or any other preferential programs.

Bidding Documents: Procuring entities shall use the appropriate standard
bidding documents, including contractual provisions, satisfactory to the
Bank.

Cost Estimates: Cost estimates shall not be disclosed to prospective bidders.

Bid Validity: An extension of bid validity, if justified by exceptional
circumstances, may be requested in writing from all bidders before the
expiration date and for a minimum period required to complete the evaluation
or award a contract, provided that such extension shall cover only the
minimum period required to complete the evaluation and/or award a contract,
but not to exceed four (4) weeks. No further extensions shall be requested
without the prior written concurrence of the Bank.

Bid Submission and Bid Opening: Prospective bidders shall be given at least

thirty (30) days from the date of publication of the invitation to bid or the
date of availability of the bidding documents, whichever is later, to prepare

-14-
(h)

(i)

Gj)

(k)

(I)

(m)

and submit bids. Bids shall be opened in public immediately after the
deadline for their submission. A copy of the bid opening minutes shall be
promptly provided to all bidders who submitted bids, and to the World Bank
with respect to contracts subject to the Bank’s prior review.

Qualification: Qualification criteria shall be clearly specified in the bidding
documents. All criteria so specified, and only such specified criteria, shall be
used to determine whether a bidder is qualified. Qualification shall be
assessed on a “pass or fail’’ basis, and merit points shall not be used. Such
assessment shall be based entirely upon the bidder’s or prospective bidder’s
capability and resources to effectively perform the contract, taking into
account objective and measurable factors, including: (i) relevant general and
specific experience, and satisfactory past performance and _ successful
completion of similar contracts over a given period; (ii) financial position;
and where relevant (iii) capability of construction and/or manufacturing
facilities.

Prequalification procedures and documents satisfactory to the Bank shall be
used for large, complex and/or specialized works contracts. Verification of
the information upon which a bidder was prequalified, including current
commitments and the bidder’s capability with respect to personnel and
equipment, shall be carried out at the time of contract award.

Where prequalification is not used, the qualification of the bidder who is
recommended for award of contract shall be assessed by post-qualification,
applying the qualification criteria stated in the bidding documents.

Bid Evaluation: Evaluation criteria shall be clearly specified in the bidding
documents. Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the
quantifiable criteria declared in the bidding documents. Evaluation criteria,
other than price, shall be quantified in monetary terms. Merit points and
bracketing shall not be used, and no minimum point or percentage value shall
be assigned to the significance of price, in bid evaluation. Bidders shall not
be eliminated on the basis of minor, nonmaterial deviations. The procuring
entity shall ask bidders for clarifications needed to evaluate their bids, but
shall not ask or permit bidders to change the substance or price of their bids
after the bid opening.

Contracts shall be awarded to the qualified bidder whose bid has been
determined: (i) to be substantially responsive to the bidding documents; and
(ii) to offer the lowest-evaluated cost. No negotiation as to the price or
substance of the bid shall take place.

Rejection of Bids and Re-Bidding: No bids shall be rejected solely because
they fall below or exceed the estimated cost or outside of a range or “bracket”
of bid values. All bids (including in the case when less than two bids are
received) shall not be rejected, the procurement process shall not be
cancelled, and new bids shall not be solicited without the World Bank’s prior
written concurrence.

-15-
(n)

(0)

(p)

(q)

(r)

(s)

Guarantees: Bid and contract guarantees shall be in the format and have the
required period of validity specified in the bidding documents. If required,
bid security shall be expressed as a fixed amount and shall not exceed two
percent (2%) of the estimated cost of the contract. No advance payments shall
be made to contractors without a suitable Advance Payment Guarantee.

Confidentiality: The process of bid evaluation shall be confidential until the
publication of contract award.

Electronic Procurement Systems: Electronic procurement systems may be
used, provided that the World Bank is satisfied with the adequacy of the
systems, including inter alia, that the system is secure, maintains the
integrity, confidentiality, and authenticity of bids submitted.

Fraud and Corruption: In accordance with the Procurement Guidelines, each
bidding document and contract shall include provisions stating the World
Bank’s policy to sanction firms or individuals, found to have engaged in
fraud and/or corruption as defined in the Procurement Guidelines.

Inspection and Audit Rights: In accordance with the Procurement Guidelines,
each bidding document and contract financed out of the proceeds of the Bank
financing shall provide that bidders, suppliers, contractors and their
subcontractors, agents, personnel, consultants, service providers, or suppliers
will permit the Bank to inspect all accounts, records and other documents
relating to the bid submission and performance of the contract and to have
said accounts and records audited by auditors appointed by the Bank. Acts
intended to materially impede the exercise of the Bank’s inspection and audit
rights provided for in the Procurement Guidelines constitute an obstructive
practice as defined in the Guidelines.

Publication of the Award of Contract: The procuring entity shall publish the
following information on contract award in a free and open access website or
on another means of publication acceptable to the World Bank: (a) name of
each bidder who submitted a bid; (b) bid prices as read out at bid opening; (c)
name and evaluated price of each bid that was evaluated; (d) name of bidders
whose bids were rejected and the reasons for their rejection; and (e) name of
the winning bidder, price it offered as well as the duration and summary
scope of the contract awarded.

-16-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule

Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall
repay each Disbursed Amount in semiannual installments payable on each
March 15 and September 15, the first installment to be payable on the
eleventh (11") Payment Date following the Maturity Fixing Date for the
Disbursed Amount and the last installment to be payable on the thirtieth (30")
Payment Date following the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed Amount.
Each installment except for the last one shall be equal to one-twentieth (1/20)
of the Disbursed Amount. The last installment shall be equal to the
remaining outstanding amount of the Disbursed Amount.

If any one or more installments of principal of the Disbursed Amount would,
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Schedule, be payable after
March 15, 2034, the Borrower shall also pay on such date the aggregate
amount of all such installments.

The Bank shall notify the Loan Parties of the amortization schedule for each

Disbursed Amount promptly after the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed
Amount.

-17-
10.

11.

APPENDIX
Definitions

“Administrative Offences Code” means the Code on Administrative Offences
of the Borrower, dated January 30, 2001 (No. 155), as amended through
January 17, 2014 by Law of the Borrower on Changes in and Amendments to
Several Legal Acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the Issues of
Counteracting to Activities of Financial (Investments) Pyramids (No. 166-V),
and as may be further amended from time to time.

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January
2011.

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.

“Codes” means, collectively, the Commercial Code, the Administrative
Offences Code, and the Penal Code.

“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment
of Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World
Bank Borrowers” dated January 2011.

“Commercial Code” means the Borrower’s draft Commercial Code being
prepared pursuant to the plan of legislative work of the government, expected
to be submitted to the Borrower’s Parliament in June 2014. The same term
shall apply to the Commercial Code once fully enacted by the Borrower.

“Eligible Candidate” means a candidate eligible for a Fellowship Grant in
accordance with selection and eligibility criteria acceptable to the Bank as set
forth in the Project Operations Manual.

‘Fellowship Grant” means a grant provided for an Eligible Candidate in
accordance with the selection methods, eligibility criteria, procedures,
transaction, control and clearance processes, implementation mechanisms,
and necessary terms of reference set forth in the Project Operations Manual.

“Fellowship Grants Manual” means the manual to be adopted by the
Borrower, and referred to in Section I.B.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated March 12, 2012.

“Implementation Support Group” or “ISG” means a consulting firm to be
hired by the Borrower, through the Ministry of Justice, to provide

-18-
12.

13.

15.

16.

17.

18.

19,

implementation support to the PIU for the Project pursuant to Section
I.A.1(b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Incremental Operating Costs” means the reasonable and necessary
incremental expenditures on account of Project implementation,
management, coordination, and monitoring and evaluation, as approved by
the Bank on the basis of semi-annual budgets acceptable to the Bank, and
including, inter alia, the costs of: (i) utilities and communication costs; (ii)
organization of workshops; (iii) travel costs and per diems, including for
officials and experts participating in the implementation of the Project; (iv)
consumable office supplies; (v) media communication and advertisements,
printing and publications; (vi) costs of translation and interpretation; (vii)
bank charges; and (viii) vehicle rental and fuel charges. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, Incremental Operating Costs shall not include salaries or
allowances of the Borrower’s civil servants.

“Institute of Justice” means the Borrower’s Institute of Justice within the
Public Administration Academy under the President of the Republic of
Kazakhstan, established pursuant to the Decree of the President of the
Republic of Kazakhstan No. 1583, dated May 31, 2005, and any successor
thereto.

“Law on Free Legal Aid” means the Borrower’s Law on State Guaranteed
Legal Aid, dated July 3, 2013 (No. 122-V), as may be amended from time to
time.

“Law on Self-regulated Professional Organizations” means the law on self-
regulated professional organizations to be drafted by the Borrower, and
referred to under Part A.2. of Schedule | to this Agreement.

“Penal Code” means the Penal Code of the Borrower, adopted on December
13, 1997 (No. 208), as amended through January 15, 2014 by Law of the
Borrower on Changes in and Amendments to Several Legal Acts of the
Republic of Kazakhstan on the Issues of Improvement of Enforcement
Proceedings (No. 164-V), as may be further amended from time to time.

“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement of Goods,
Works and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and
Grants by World Bank Borrowers” dated January 2011.

“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project,
dated February 10, 2014 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same
shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said
paragraphs.

“Project Implementation Unit” or “PIU” means the Project implementation
unit under the Ministry of Justice, in charge of Project implementation.

-19-
20.

21.

22.

23.

24.

25.

26.

27.

“Ministry of Economy and Budget Planning” means the Borrower’s Ministry
of Economy and Budget Planning, and any successor thereto.

“Ministry of Internal Affairs” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Internal
Affairs, and any successor thereto.

“Ministry of Justice” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Justice, and any
successor thereto.

“Project Operations Manual” means the manual to be adopted by the
Borrower, and referred to in Section I.B.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Selected Agencies of the Borrower” means any or all of the following: (a)
Ministry of Justice; (b) the Ministry of Economy and Budget Planning; (c)
the Ministry of Regional Development; (d) Ministry of Internal Affairs; (e)
the Supreme Court; or (f) another government agency of the Borrower
selected pursuant to criteria set forth in the Project Operations Manual.

‘Selected Courts’ means the Borrower’s first-instance courts located in
Almaty, Astana, Aktobe, Semey, Pavlodar, Karaganda or such other courts
selected pursuant to the criteria set forth in the Project Operations Manual.

“Supreme Court” means the Borrower’s Supreme Court, and any successor
thereto.

“Training” means training activities (other than consultants’ services) to be
carried out under the Project, as approved by the Bank on the basis of semi-
annual training and study tour plans acceptable to the Bank, including the
reasonable and necessary local and international travel and visa expenses
incurred by participants in training workshops, as well as_ lodging,
subsistence, local and international per diem allowances according to the
guidelines of the Borrower, registration, tuition and facilitators’ fees, minor
organizational expenses (including costs of stationery, handouts and training
materials), translation and interpretation costs, facility rental costs, and other
expenditures directly relating to the training workshop and study tour
activity.

- 20 -
