TON ne aa weeny sry: eemammmpnn oo wm.coneenrnn ort baal aetna entrer Authorized: --'

Public Disclosure’Authorized ~~ ~

, aa :: ‘ a

OFFICIAL
| DOCUMENTS

 

 

LOAN NUMBER 8313-IN

Loan Agreement

(Second Gujarat State Highway Project - GSHP-II)
between
INDIA
and

_ INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated “ebaweny \2 , 201 lL}

 

 
LOAN NUMBER 8313-IN

LOAN AGREEMENT

Agreement dated tease 2, 2014 | between INDIA (“Borrower”) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”). The

Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:

1.01.

1.02.

2.01.

2.02.

2.03.

2.04.

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to thts Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.

Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.

ARTICLE I — LOAN

The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred and seventy five million United States
Dollars (USD 175,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through
a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement (“Project”).

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.

The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to
the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall! be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article [V of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then
the interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section
3.02 (e) of the General Conditions.

The Payment Dates are June | and December | in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07.

3.01.

3.02.

4.01.

(a)

(b)

The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (1) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the
interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or
vice versa; or (B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a
Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference
Rate. |

Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in the
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of
Article [V of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.

Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium
payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE Il — PROJECT

The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project Implementing Entity in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and the Project
Agreement. |

Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

5.01. The Borrower’s Representative is any of the following officials, acting severally:
Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary, or Under
Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs in the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance.

5.02. The Borrower’s Address is:

Secretary

Department of Economic Affairs
Ministry of Finance

Government of India

North Block

New Delhi 110001, India

Facsimile:
9 1-11-23092039
5.03. The Bank’s Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America

Cable address: Telex: Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391]
Washington, D.C. 64145(MCI)
AGREEDat_ \\ 3: D oh. _, India, as of the day and year first above written.

INDIA [ kh.

By
Authorized Representative

Name: —Nileya th Verh

Title: wh \}

   
   

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

Authorized Representative

Name: (ano 2 U |
Title: nol. a

 
SCHEDULE 1

Project Description

The Project development objective is to improve the capacity and enhance the quality and

safety of road services for users of the core road network of state highways in Gujarat, through
institutional strengthening, and efficient contracting and financing strategies.

The Project consists of the following parts:

Component A: Highway Improvement Component

l.

(a) Upgrading and rehabilitation of selected sections of state highways through, among
other things, the financing of Input-Based Contracts; and (b) provision of support for land
and resettlement and rehabilitation, tree cutting, utility relocation, environmental
management, construction supervision, Project management and quality assurance
services associated with this sub-component A.1.

(a) Upgrading a section of state highway to four-lane highway through the financing of a
public-private partnership Annuity-Based DBFOMT Concession; (b) upgrading,
operation and maintenance of a portion of the state highway network through the
financing of an Output and Performance Based Contract; and (c) provision of support for
land and resettlement and rehabilitation, tree cutting, utility relocation, environmental
management, independent engineer services, Project management, and quality assurance
services associated with this sub-component A.2.

Component B: Sector Policy and Institutional Development

l.

Strengthening R&BD operational capacity including on: (a) design review, planning,
road asset management, contract management, monitoring and evaluation, work zone and
road safety, environment and social management, and grievance redress; (b) human
resources strategies and management; and (c) information technology-based
interventions.

Strengthening Gujarat’s policy and planning capacity including: (a) updating the state’s
policy and framework for road classification and responsibility; (b) development of a
medium-term master plan for the development of the state road network; and (c) building
capacity for better management of public-private partnerships contacts, road safety, and
governance and accountability.

Strengthening Gujarat’s capacity to better utilize the Engineering Staff College and
Gujarat Engineering Research Institute; and to develop two centers of excellence in road
and bridge design innovation, and construction management.

Provision of support for implementation of the Governance and Accountability Action
Plan.
Component C: Road Safety Management

Strengthening Gujarat’s road safety management system and improving its capacity to

undertake multi-sectoral road safety interventions including:

I.

Provision of support for the implementation of multi-sectoral interventions on selected
high volume, high risk road corridors to demonstrate road safety best practices.

Strengthening the road safety module of GRMS and piloting integrated periodic
maintenance and safety enhancement contracts.

Strengthening GRMS including implementing policy changes on targeted high risk
issues, establishment of a statewide road-accident database, provision of training to
police on proactive road safety practices, development of a deterrence framework for
unsafe driving behavior, preparation for a demonstration corridor program, and
establishment of a state level lead agency for road safety management.

Provision of support to the Road Safety Steering Committee in the implementation of and
technical assistance for the above activities.
SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Section I. Implementation Arrangements

Institutional and On-Lending Arrangements

To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make the proceeds of the
Loan available to the Project Implementing Entity in accordance with the Borrower’s
standard arrangements for developmental assistance to the States of India.

The Borrower shall protect its own interests and the interests.of the Bank to accomplish
the purpose of the Loan.

Anti-Corruption

The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines and. those of the GAAP.

Section II. Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

A.

Project Reports

The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to monitor and evaluate the
progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators as agreed with the
Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar quarter, and shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the period
covered by such report.

Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits

The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions.

Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall cause
the Project Implementing Entity to prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty
five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim financial reports for the
Project covering the calendar quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.

The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to have its Financial
Statements audited, all in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the
General Conditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one
(1) fiscal year of the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity, commencing with
the fiscal year in which the first withdrawal was made. The audited Financial Statements
for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the
end of such period.
Section III. Procurement
A. General

l. Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. All goods, works and non-consulting
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.

2. Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and
with the provisions of this Section. .

3. Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to
the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the Procurement Guidelines,
or Sections II, III, [V and V of the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.

B. Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services

1. International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2
below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.

2. Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. The
following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used for
procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for those contracts specified in
the Procurement Plan: (a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional
provisions set forth in the Procurement Plan; (b) Shopping; (c) Direct Contracting; (d)
Force Account; (e) Framework Agreement; (f) Performance Based Procurement; and (g)
Procurement under Public Private Partnership Arrangements in accordance with
procedures which shall have been agreed between the Borrower, the Project
Implementing Entity and the Bank.

OF Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services

 

l. Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality-
and Cost-based Selection.

2. Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following methods,
other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, may be used for procurement of
consultants’ services for those contracts which are specified in the Procurement Plan: (a)
Selection under a Fixed Budget; (b) Least Cost Selection; (c) Selection based on
Consultants’ Qualifications; (d) Single-source Selection of consulting firms; and (e)
Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for the
Selection of Individual Consultants.
D. Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s
Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.

Section IV. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

A. General

1. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World Bank
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by
the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to
finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.

2. The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible
Expenditures in each Category.

Category Amount of the Loan Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated to be Financed
expressed in USD inclusive of Taxes

(1) Goods, works, non-consulting
services, consultants’ services,
and Workshops & Training for
Components A.1, B and C of the

Project

      

127,562,500 62%

 
     
  
  

 
  
  

(2) Goods, works, non-consulting
services and consultants’ services,
and Workshops & Training under
Component A.2 of the Project

  
    
 
 

100% |

 
  
 

  

47,000,000
Amount payable pursuant to
Section 2.03 of this Agreement in
accordance with Section 2.07 (b) of

the General Conditions
Amount due pursuant to Section
(4) Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate a 2.07(c) of this Agreement in
Collar premium accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of |
the General Conditions

TOTAL AMOUNT 175,000,000 a

   

(3) Front-end Fee

   

    
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made for
payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed USD 15,000,000 equivalent may be made for payments
made prior to this date but on or after September 1, 2013, for Eligible Expenditures under
Category (1). a

The Closing Date is January 31, 2019.

-10-
SCHEDULE 3

Amortization Schedule

1. The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment
Date (“Installment Share”). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b)
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule,
to which a Currency Conversion applies.

Principal Payment Date

On each June | and December |

  

Installment Share
Expressed as a Percentage

   

 

Beginning June 1, 2019

  
 

  

through June 1, 2031 3.85%

On December 1, 2031

 

3.75%

 

2. If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:

(a)

(b)

To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance
as of such date in accordance with paragraph | of this Schedule.

Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original
Installment Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.

Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.

-ll-
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of
such billing system.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs | and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.

If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the

provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.

-12-
APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

“Annuity-Based DBFOMT Concession” means a multi-year road construction and
maintenance contract wherein a competitively selected private operator is commissioned
by a project authority to design, build, finance, operate, maintain and transfer a selected
road section over a predefined concession period, and recovers the related expenditure
from the project authority through a combination of upfront payments during the
construction of the road and a series of semiannual payments throughout the balance of
the concession period after construction.

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”,
dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.

“Chief Secretary” means the chief of all government staff in Gujarat and the secretary of
the Gujarat cabinet of ministers.

“Committee of Secretaries” means a standing committee of the Government of Gujarat,
assigned with interagency coordination, and guidance, and authorized to take high level
decisions for all ongoing development programs in Gujarat. For purposes of this
Agreement and the Project Agreement, the term Committee of Secretaries, comprises any
standing sub-committees, including the Committee of Secretaries on Infrastructure.

“Construction Supervision Consultant” means the consultant to be contracted by the
Project Implementing Entity, pursuant to Section I.A.2(b) of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement, for purposes of assisting the PIU with the management and supervision of
construction contracts under Sub-component A.1 of the Project.

“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers”
dated January 2011.

“Displaced Persons” means persons who, on account of the execution of the Project, have
experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts caused by: (a) the
involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets
or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources or means of livelihood, whether or not
such persons must move to another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to
legally designated parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impact on the
livelihoods of such persons.

“Engineering Staff College” means the Gujarat entity responsible for training and

development programs for the technical staff of the R&BD and Gujarat’s irrigation
department, or any successor thereto.

-13-
11.

“Environmental Impact Assessments” and the acronym “EIAs” mean: (a) the Project
Implementing Entity’s Environmental Assessment Summary dated March 2013,
assessing the likely positive and negative environmental impact of Project activities; and
(b) any additional environmental impact assessments which may be required to be
prepared during the implementation of the Project in accordance with the EMF pursuant
to Section I.D of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, each such assessment in form
and substance satisfactory to the Bank and defining details of potential environmental
risks and adverse impacts associated with the implementation of any activities under the
Project, together with an environmental management plan defining measures to manage
such risks and impacts; as such assessments may be revised from time to time with the
prior concurrence of the Bank.

“Environmental Management Framework” and the acronym “EMF” mean the Project
Implementing Entity’s combined Environmental Management Framework (Upgrading
(Widening and Strengthening) Corridors) and Environmental and Social Management
Framework (Maintenance/Rehabilitation Corridors), dated May 2013, setting the guiding
principles, standards, and procedures for: (i) the screening of Project activities to be
carried out as may be agreed in writing between the Project Implementing Entity and the
Bank, and the identification of any adverse or positive environmental impacts caused, or
expected to be caused, on account of their implementation; and (ti) for the preparation of
environmental management plans; as such framework may be revised from time to time
with the prior concurrence of the Bank.

“Environmental Management Plans” and the acronym “EMPs” mean, collectively: (a) the
eight (8) Environmental Management Plans prepared for the Project Implementing
Entity, all dated May 2013, which plans set out the environmental protection measures in
respect of the Project, as well as the administrative and monitoring arrangements for
ensuring the implementation of said plans; and (b) any additional environmental
management plans which may be required to be prepared during the implementation of
the Project in accordance with the EMF, pursuant to Section I.D of the Schedule to the
Project Agreement, each such plan in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, and
defining details of measures to manage potential environmental risks and mitigate, reduce
and/or offset adverse environmental impacts associated with the implementation of any
activities under the Project, together with adequate budget, institutional, monitoring and
reporting arrangements capable of ensuring proper implementation of, and regular feedback
on compliance with, its terms; as such plans may be revised from time to time with the
prior concurrence of the Bank.

“EM Manual” means the manual dated November 1, 2013 adopted by the Project
Implementing Entity for purposes of the Project, which sets out the Financial
Management arrangements applicable to the Project, as such manual may be revised from
time to time with the prior concurrence of the Bank.

“Governance and Accountability Action Plan” and the acronym “GAAP” mean the
Project Implementing Entity’s governance and accountability action plan adopted by
Gujarat on August 14, 2012, for purposes of the Project, which sets out the key actions to
be undertaken by the Project Implementing Entity to strengthen governance, transparency
and accountability under the Project; as such plan may be revised from time to time with
the prior concurrence of the Bank.

-|4-
20.

21.

22.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated March 12, 2012.

“GRMS” means the Gujarat road management system.

“Gujarat” means the Borrower’s state of Gujarat, formed and recognized pursuant to the
Borrower’s States Reorganization Act of 1956, or any successor thereto.

“Gujarat Engineering Research Institute” means the Gujarat entity responsible for
material testing and research services for Gujarat agencies and industry, or any successor
thereto.

“HIV/AIDS Prevention Plan” means the plan, dated July 2013, relating to HIV/AIDS
prevention prepared by the Project Implementing Entity based on an assessment of
pertinent issues with respect to the mobility pattern of high risk groups and bridge
populations and with analyses of potential risk factors for local communities; and which
provides mitigation measures and institutional arrangements for the sustainable delivery
of Project benefits to the community; as such plan may be revised from time to time with
the prior concurrence of the Bank.

“Indigenous People Development Plan” and the acronym “IPDP” mean the Project
Implementing Entity’s plan, dated July 2013, relating to the Dabhoi-Bodeli, Dhansura-
Meghraj, and Lunawada-Khedapa road sections passing through certain areas with
Indigenous Peoples and providing for support measures, including income restoration
support, to those affected Indigenous Peoples and other support measures for the broader
community; as such plan may be revised from time to time with the prior concurrence of
the Bank. For purposes of this definition, “Indigenous Peoples” means any distinct,
vulnerable, social and cultural group within the territory of the Project Implementing
Entity, that: (i) self-identifies as such, and is recognized by others as having a
distinguishable cultural identity; (ii) has collective attachment to geographically distinct
habitats or ancestral territories in the Project area, and to the natural resources in these
habitat and territories; (i11) has customary cultural, economic, social and political
institutions that are separate from those of the dominant society and culture; and (iv) has
an indigenous language, often different from the official language of the Borrower.

“Input-based Contracts” means contracts which specify the techniques, technologies,
materials and quantities of materials to be used by the contractor together with a time
period during which the work should be executed and under which payment to the
contractor is based on the amount of inputs.

“Institutional Development Action Plan” and the acronym “IDAP” mean the Project
Implementing Entity’s development action plan, dated August 14, 2012, which sets out
the key actions to be undertaken by the Project Implementing Entity to strengthen sector
Capacities, structures, and performance under the Project and which has been endorsed by
Gujarat; as such plan may be revised from time to time with the prior concurrence of the
Bank.

-15-
23.

24.

25.

26.

27.

28.

29.

30.

31.

“Output and Performance Based Contract” means a multiple year contract for managing
and maintaining road infrastructure to a pre-agreed level of service, whereby contractors
are paid for maintaining the road to the pre-agreed condition and not on physical works
or input cost.

“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and
Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers” dated January 2011.

“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, dated
November |, 2013 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and
paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to
time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.

“Project Implementing Entity” means Gujarat, or any successor thereto.

“Project Implementation Manual” means the Project Implementing Entity’s operations
manual, adopted by Gujarat on November 1, 2013, setting forth the detailed policies,
rules procedures and protocols necessary for carrying out the Project in accordance with
this Agreement; as such plan may be revised from time to time with the prior concurrence
of the Bank.

“Project Implementation Unit” and the acronym “PIU” mean the administrative unit
created by R&BD for overall implementation, coordination and monitoring of the
Project; as such unit may be reconstituted from time to time with the prior concurrence of
the Bank.

“R&BD” means Gujarat’s Roads and Buildings Department, or any successor thereto.

“Resettlement Action Plans” and the acronym “RAPs” mean: (a) the eight (8)
Resettlement Action Plans, dated July 2013, setting forth, inter alia, the entitlement
framework, land acquisition and compensation payment procedures, institutional
arrangements, implementation schedules, monitoring and coordination mechanism, and
cost estimates for the resettlement and rehabilitation of people affected by the
implementation of the Project; and (b) any additional resettlement action plans which
may be required to be prepared during the implementation of the Project in accordance
with the RPF, pursuant to Section I.D of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, each
such plan in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, and defining details of measures
to manage potential social risks and mitigate, reduce and/or offset adverse social impacts
associated with the implementation of any activities under the Project, together with
adequate budget, institutional, monitoring and reporting arrangements capable of ensuring
proper implementation of, and regular feedback on compliance with, its terms, as such
plans may be revised from time to time with the prior concurrence of the Bank.

“Resettlement Policy Framework” and the acronym “RPF” mean the framework, dated
July 2013, that outlines the principles, legal and operational guidelines, institutional
arrangements, entitlements for different types of social impacts, disclosure procedures,
monitoring and evaluation, and grievance redress procedures, and which guides the

-16-
32.

33.

34.

35.

preparation of Resettlement Action Plans as applicable under the Project; as such
framework may be revised from time to time with the prior concurrence of the Bank.

“Road Safety Steering Committee” and the acronym “RSSC” mean the committee
formed by Gujarat for overall monitoring and coordination of the Road Safety
Improvement Component of the Project and referred to in Section I.A.1(c) of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement; as such committee may be reconstituted from time to
time with the prior concurrence of the Bank.

“Safeguard Documents” means, collectively, the EAs, the EMF, the EMPs, the RPF, the
RAPs, the SIAs, the HIV/AIDS Prevention Plan, and the IPDP.

“Social Impact Assessments” and the acronym “SIAs” mean: (a) the consolidated
document titled “Resettlement Action Plan”, dated July 2013, incorporating a social
impact assessment and resettlement action plan reflecting the quantitative and qualitative
assessment carried out by the Project Implementing Entity to determine the potential
positive and adverse impacts that are likely to occur on communities living in the Project
area, with respect to their assets and livelihoods due to the proposed Project; and (b) any
additional social impact assessments which may be required to be prepared during the
implementation of the Project in accordance with the RPF pursuant to Section I.D of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement in order to assess the likely social impact of Project
activities, each such assessment in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank and
defining details of potential social risks and adverse impacts associated with the
implementation of any activities under the Project; as such assessments may be revised
from time to time with the prior concurrence of the Bank.

“Workshops & Training” means the reasonable cost of trainings, seminars, workshops,
conferences and study tours, conducted in the territory of the Borrower and/or overseas,
including: (i) the fees of training institutions and courses; (ii) domestic and international
travel costs, lodging costs, and subsistence/per diem allowances both for trainers and
trainees; (ili) the rental of training facilities; and (iv) preparation, purchase or
reproduction of training materials.

-|7-
