Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

ee
}

OFFICIAL

4
DOCUMENTS

. MM.

 

LOAN NUMBER 8340-YF

Loan Agreement

(Deposit Insurance Strengthening Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF SERBIA
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated ZA PO ,.014

-|-
LOAN AGREEMENT

 

Agreement dated , M7 , 2014, between REPUBLIC OF SERBIA
(“Borrower”) and INTERNA@AONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01. The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

1.02. Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.

ARTICLE II — LOAN

2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred forty five million three
hundred thousand Euros (EUR 145,300,000), as such amount may be converted
from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the
provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the
project described in Schedule | to this Agreement (‘Project’).

2.02. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

2.03. The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.

2.04. The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.

2.05. |The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.

-2-
2.06.

2.07.

3.01.

3.02.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

(a)

(b)

The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.

Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.

ARTICLE II — PROJECT

The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project
Implementing Entity in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and the Project Agreement.

Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
4.01.

4.02.

5.01.

5.02.

5.03.

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:

(a) that the Project Implementing Entity’s Legislation has been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the ability of the Project Implementing Entity to (i) perform
any of its obligations under the Project Agreement; or (ii) carry out its
deposit insurance and bank resolution obligations; or

(b) that, the DIF Assets are less than the cumulative amount of the Transfers
to DIF, except when the difference can be justified by (i) payments in an
equivalent amount made by the Project Implementing Entity to fulfill its
deposit insurance and bank resolution obligations, in accordance with the
Borrower’s applicable laws and regulations, which payments shall not
include repayment of funds borrowed for the above purposes, from
entities other than the Borrower; or (ii) an investment loss, when the
investment of DIF Assets was made in accordance with the Law on
Deposit Insurance.

The Additional Event of Acceleration consist of, namely, that an event specified

in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of sixty

(60) days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following:

(a) The Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower
and the Project Implementing Entity; and

(b) The Project Operations Manual, satisfactory to the Bank, has been
adopted by the Project Implementing Entity.

The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely, that the
Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and
the Project Implementing Entity and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the
Project Implementing Entity in accordance with its terms.

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and eighty days (180) days
after the date of this Agreement.

-4.
6.02.

6.03.

ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

For the purposes of Section 10.02 of the General Conditions, the Borrower’s
Representative who, inter alia, may agree to modification of the provisions of
this Agreement on behalf of the Borrower, through exchange of letters (unless
otherwise determined by the Borrower and the Bank), is its Minister of Finance.

The Borrower’s Address is:

Ministry of Finance
20 Kneza Milosa St.
11000 Belgrade
Republic of Serbia

Facsimile:
(381-11) 3618-961

The Bank’s Address is:

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N. W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America

Cable address: Telex: Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 64145(MCI)

-5-
- . ay
AGREED «PA ote, Sef

written.

of the day and year first above

 

REPUBLIC OF SERBIA

By

'
a \—

uthorized Representative

Name: AQ STC
Title: MINISTGR SE Finance

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By

    

Authorize@ Representative

Name: N Nera. i
Title: Goorin, Morepe

-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description

The objective of the Project is to strengthen the financial and institutional
capacity of the Project Implementing Entity, so as to enable it to meet its deposit
insurance and bank resolution obligations and serve as a core part of financial sector
safety net.

The Project consists of the following parts:

Part 1. Strengthen the Financial Capacity of the Project Implementing Entity
Provision of financing to the Project Implementing Entity through Transfers to DIF.
Part 2. Strengthen the Institutional Capacity of the Project Implementing Entity

Provision of technical assistance for: (A)(i) the improvement of the Project
Implementing Entity’s governance bodies’ independence; (ii) the promotion of
information-sharing between the Borrower’s financial safety net providers to ensure that
the Project Implementing Entity has access to relevant information; (iii) the improvement
of the Project Implementing Entity’s capacity to recover assets from bankrupt and
liquidated banks; and (iv) the strengthening of the Project Implementing Entity’s
information base for early detection and intervention of institutions in the banking sector,
including the Borrower’s state-owned banks; and (B)(i) Project management,
supervision, monitoring and evaluation activities; (ii) Project management support and
capacity building of the Project Implementing Entity in areas such as procurement,
financial management; and (iii) Project audits, including the Independent Performance
Audit.
SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Section I. Implementation Arrangements

Institutional Arrangements

The Borrower shall maintain the Project Implementing Entity with the necessary
resources to carry out the Project, and with a composition and terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank.

The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to maintain the PIT at
all times during Project implementation with resources and responsibilities
satisfactory to the World Bank, including procurement and_ financial
management, and with competent staff in adequate numbers.

The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to carry out the
Project in accordance with the Project Operations Manual, and shall not, and
shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to not amend or waive any provision
thereto without the Bank’s prior written approval. In case of any conflict between
the terms of the Project Operations Manual and the Agreement, the Agreement
shall prevail.

Subsidiary Agreement

To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make the proceeds
of the Loan available to the Project Implementing Entity under a subsidiary
agreement between the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity, under
terms and conditions approved by the Bank, which shall include the following:
(a) the principal amount of the Loan made available to the Project Implementing
Entity shall be made available to it as a non-reimbursable grant, or as a loan, or
partly as a non-reimbursable grant and partly as a loan; (b) if the principal
amount of the Loan, or any part thereof , shall be made available to the Project
Implementing Entity as a loan, such loan shall be made in no less favorable terms
than the terms of the Loan; and (c) no repayment shall be due to the Borrower for
a given period, if, when the payment is due for the given period, or if as a result
of the payment being made for said given period, the DIF Assets shall be
equivalent to less than 3% of the insured deposits, based on average of the
calendar quarter prior to the period for which payment is due (“Subsidiary
Agreement”).

The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to

-8-
accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary
Agreement or any of its provisions.

OF Anti-Corruption

The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.

D. Project Operations Manual

1. The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to carry out the
Project in accordance with the provisions and requirements of an operational
manual, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank (“Project Operations
Manual” or “POM”), which shall include, inter alia, the following:

(a) institutional coordination and implementation arrangements and
procedures for the Project;

(b) financial management and procurement procedures for the Project;
(c) arrangements for monitoring, evaluation, and reporting of Project

implementation, including the necessary protocols to confirm DLI
achievement; and

(d) such other administrative, financial, technical and organizational
arrangements, requirements and procedures as shall be required for the

Project.
2. The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to not assign, amend,

abrogate or waive the POM, or any of provisions thereof, without the Bank’s
prior agreement. In case of any conflict between the terms of the POM and those
of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.

Section II. Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

A. Project Reports

1. The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and shall
cause the Project Implementing Entity to prepare Project Reports in accordance
with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of
indicators acceptable to the Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the period of
one calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than one month
after the end of the period covered by such report.

-9.
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph A.1 of this Section, the
Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to include in each Project
Report, a reference to the Borrower’s level of compliance with the DLIs.

Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits

The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.

Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
cause the Project Implementing Entity to prepare and furnish to the Bank not
later than 45 days after the end of each calendar semester, interim unaudited
financial reports for the Project covering the semester, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank.

The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to have its Financial
Statements audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the
General Conditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the
period of one calendar year of the Project Implementing Entity. The audited
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later
than six months after the end of such period.

In the event that in any given calendar year the DIF Assets become less than the
sum of Transfers to DIF made pursuant to this Agreement, the Borrower shall
ensure that each audit report referred to in paragraph 3 of this Section shall
confirm that the difference is justified by: (1) payments in an equivalent amount
made by the Project Implementing Entity to fulfill its deposit insurance and bank
resolution obligations, in accordance with the Borrower’s applicable laws and
regulations, which payments shall not include repayment of funds borrowed for
the above purposes, from entities other than the Borrower; or (ii) an investment
loss, when the investment of DIF Assets was made in accordance with the Law
on Deposit Insurance.

Independent Performance Audit

No later than three months prior to the end of each calendar year during Project
implementation, the Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to
engage, under terms of reference and with qualifications satisfactory to the Bank,
a Project Audit Consultant, for purposes of carrying out the Independent
Performance Audit.

-10-
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to ensure independent
monitoring and evaluation of the Project, through the carrying out of an
Independent Performance Audit certifying the extent to which: (a) Eligible
Expenditures under the Project have been incurred in compliance with the
arrangements provided for in this Agreement, and in the Operations Manual; (b)
the Disbursement-Linked Indicators have been met; and (c) the Additional
Instructions have been adhered to by the Borrower.

No later than forty-five days after the end of each calendar year during Project
implementation, the Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to
furnish to the Bank a complete Independent Performance Audit Report including
all the findings and results from the Independent Performance Audit, as well as
the certifications from the Project Audit Consultant of the degree of achievement
of the Disbursement Linked Indicators.

Section ITI. Procurement

General

Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.

Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in Sections IH, HI, [V and
V of the Consultant Guidelines.

Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services

Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.

Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants’ services for those contracts which are specified in
the Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based Selection; (b) Selection under a Fixed
Budget; (c) Least Cost Selection; (d) Selection based on Consultants’
Qualifications; (e) Single-source Selection of consulting firms; (f) Procedures set
forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of
Individual Consultants; and (g) Single-source procedures for the Selection of
Individual Consultants.
-11-
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank’s Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.

Section IV. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

A.

I.

General

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article I] of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions)(the “Additional Instructions”), to
finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.

The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.

Amount of the Loan
Allocated Percentage of Expenditures

(expressed in EUR) to be financed

(1) Transfers to DIF under 144,230,000 100% up to 50,870,000 EUR

 

Part | of the Project under DLI] as set out in

Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

100% up to 10,900,000 EUR
under DLI2 as set out in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

100% up to 17,800,000 EUR
under DLI3 as set out in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

100% up to 17,440,000 EUR
under DLI4 as set out in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

-12-
  
 
  

 
 
  

Amount of the Loan
Allocated

(expressed in EUR)

    
 
      
   
 
     

Percentage of Expenditures
to be financed

100% up to 10,890,000 EUR
under DLI5 as set out in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

100% up to 36,330,000 EUR
under DLI6 as set out in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
100%

  

 
    
 
   

 

(2) Consultants’ services 706,750
and Operating Costs for
Part 2 of the Project

(3) Front-end Fee

     

 
     
   
     

363,250 Amount payable pursuant to
Section 2.03 of this Agreement
in accordance with Section
2.07 (b) of the General

Conditions

TOTAL AMOUNT 145,300,000 ee

B. Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

    

1. Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.

2. With respect to withdrawals under Category (1), withdrawals from the Loan
Account shall be made for a respective DLI upon submission by the Borrower,
through the Project Implementing Entity, and pursuant to the Additional
Instructions of: (a) evidence satisfactory to the Bank that Transfers to DIF have
been made; and (b) supporting documentation confirming the achievement of the
respective DLI or DLIs, as set forth in the Project Operations Manual.

3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 2 above, the Borrower may
withdraw an amount not to exceed the equivalent of EUR 54,490,000 as an
advance under Category (1); provided, however, that if the DLIs for said
Category, in the opinion of the Bank, are not achieved (or are only partially
achieved) by the Closing Date, the Borrower shall refund such advance (or
proportion of such advance as determined by the Bank in accordance with the
formula set forth in the Project Operations Manual) to the Bank upon notice
thereof by the Bank. Except as otherwise agreed with the Borrower, the Bank
shall cancel the amount so refunded.

-13-
For the purposes of withdrawals under Category (1):

(a) If the Bank shall determine, based on the evidence referred to in Section
IV. B.2 above, as applicable, that the Scalable DLIs (DLI 1.1, 1.2, 1.3 or
DLI 2.1 or 2.2) have not been met, or have been only partially met by the
target date specified in the table in Schedule 4 of this Agreement, the
withdrawn amount of the Loan shall be reduced proportionately on a
percentage-basis corresponding to the degree of achievement for the
respective DLI in accordance with a formula set forth in the Project
Operations Manual.

(b) The Bank may, after consultation with, and by notice to, the Borrower,
cancel any amount of the Loan, in whole or in part, withheld pursuant to
paragraph B.4 (a) above under Category (1), or reallocate it to another
DLI.

(c) The Bank and the Borrower may agree from time to time, by exchange of
letters, to adjust the DLIs, corresponding amounts or respective dates for
DLIs set forth in Schedule 4 of this Agreement.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 above, the Bank shall
not be required to make further deposits into the Designated Account (as such
term is defined in the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated
May 2006), for Category (1):

(a) if the Bank, at any time, is not satisfied that evidence and supporting
documentation referred to in Section B.2 above provide satisfactory
information as specified in the Additional Instructions and Project
Operations Manual; or

(b) if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period
of time specified in Section II.C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, any of
the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said
Section.

If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Designated
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the
Bank may request, or deposit into the Designated Account (or, if the Bank shall
so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the

-14-
Designated Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

7. Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
provisions of the Loan Agreement.

8. The Closing Date, after which the Bank may terminate the right of the Borrower
to withdraw from the Loan Account in accordance with the General Conditions,
is June 30, 2016. Notwithstanding the foregoing, and in accordance with the
General Conditions, the Bank may establish a later date for the purpose, by
notice to the Borrower.

Section V. Other Undertakings
A. Monitoring Arrangements for the Project Implementing Entity

1. The Borrower shall, at all times, ensure that, the Project Implementing Entity
maintains governance arrangements and a financial management system adequate
to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures of the Project Implementing
Entity, acceptable to the Bank.

2. The Borrower shall ensure that the Project Implementing Entity: (a) prepares and
maintains annual financial statements in accordance with consistently applied
accounting standards acceptable to the Bank; (b) has such financial statements
annually audited by independent auditors in accordance with consistently applied
auditing standards; and (c) makes such audited financial statements publicly
available and furnishes to the Bank copies of such audited financial statements
not later than six (6) months after the end of the financial year.

-15-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule

l. The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date (“Installment Share”). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal

     
  

   

     
  
    

 

Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any

amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.

pesos | aaa
Principal Payment Date Expressed as a Percentage

On each April 15 and October 15
Beginning April 15, 2019
through April 15, 2031 3.85%

2. If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:

(a) To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the

Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph |
of this Schedule.

(b) Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”)
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.

-16-
(a) Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.

(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.

If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.

-17-
SCHEDULE 4
Disbursement Linked Indicators

The DLIs and corresponding amounts may be adjusted from time to time by the Bank and
the Borrower, based on the review pursuant to Section I[V.B.3 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.

Amount of the Loan
Disbursement Linked Allocated
Indicator Description Disbursement Linked Indicator (expressed in EUR)

DLI 1. Increase the capital | DLI#1.1: Premiums equal to 0.15% of DLI#1.1: 21,800,000
base of the Project insured deposits for each of the first two
Implementing Entity quarters of 2014 are collected for all
through increased banks that are licensed in the Republic of
premium-related revenue Serbia at the time of collection (insured
from banks deposit level is based on average of
previous quarter) by November 30, 2014

DLI#1.2: Premiums equal to 0.15% of DLI#1.2: 21,800,000
insured deposits for each quarter of the

calendar year of 2014 are collected for all

banks that are licensed in the Republic of

Serbia at the time of collection (insured

deposit level is based on average of

previous quarter) by May 31, 2015

DLI#1.3: Premiums equal to 0.15% of DLI#1.3: 7,270,000
insured deposits for each quarter of

calendar years 2014 and 2015 are

collected for all banks that are licensed in

the Republic of Serbia at the time of

collection (insured deposit level is based

on average of previous quarter) by May

31, 2016

DLI 2. Ensure back-up DLI#2.1: the Borrower has back-up DLI#2.1: 7,270,000
funding for the DIF funding in the budget for financial stability

(which includes the DIF) of at least EUR

200,000,000 for 2014, by November 30,

2014

 

-|&-
Amount of the Loan
Disbursement Linked Allocated

Indicator Description Disbursement Linked Indicator (expressed in EUR)

DLI#2.2: the Borrower has back-up DLI#2.2: 3,630,000
funding in the budget for financial stability

(which includes the DIF) of at least EUR

50,000,000 for 2015, by May 31, 2015

DLI 3. Improve the DLI#3.1: One independent board member | DLI# 3.1: 7,270,000
Project Implementing (as independence criteria is defined in the
Entity’s governance Project Operations Manual) is appointed
bodies’ independence. and serving as a member of the Project
Implementing Entity’s managing board

DLI#3.2: The Project Implementing DLI# 3.2: 10,530,000
Entity’s managing board is constituted by

at least three serving independent board

members (as independence criteria is

defined in the Project Operations Manual)

that make up a majority of the board and

no Borrower’s ministers

DLI 4. Improve the DLI#4.1.: The Borrower’s Financial DLI#4.1: 3,630,000
Project Implementing Stability Committee meets on a quarterly
Entity’s ability to basis for at least two calendar quarters
anticipate and respond to starting on January 1, 2014
problematic banks
DLI#4.2: The NBS has shared with the DLI#4.2: 7,270,000
Project Implementing Entity the
following data for at least one calendar
quarter starting on January 1, 2014: (1)
the risk profile of all the problematic
banks in the Borrower’s territory as
computed by the NBS; (ii) conclusion of
supervision reports for banks which are
considered problematic based on the
current legal framework; and (iii) details
on all enforcement actions and
compliance related to problematic banks

 

-19-
 
   
  

 
  
    
   
  

Amount of the Loan
Allocated
(expressed in EUR)

  
 

Disbursement Linked
Indicator Description

   

Disbursement Linked Indicator

 
    
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
     

DLI#4.3.: The NBS has shared with the
Project Implementing Entity the
following data for at least five calendar
quarters starting on January 1, 2014: (i)
the risk profile of all the problematic
banks in the Borrower’s territory as
computed by the NBS; (ii) conclusion of
supervision reports for banks which are
considered problematic based on the
current legal framework; and (iii) details
on all enforcement actions and
compliance related to problematic banks

  

DLI#4.3: 3,630,000

   

  
    
   
   
   

DLI#4.4.: The Borrower’s Financial
Stability Committee meets on a quarterly
basis for at least eight calendar quarters

between 2014 and 2016

DLI#4.4: 2,910,000

  

        
 
  
     
      

    
  
  
 

   
   
   

  

DLI 5. Improve the DLI#5.1:
Project Implementing
Entity’s asset recovery

process.

DLI#5.1: EUR 20,000,000 recovered 3,630,000
from bank bankruptcies and deposited
into a Systemically Important Bank

(cumulatively since February 1, 2014)

   

 
    
   
      
     

DLI #5.2: EUR 50,000,000 Euros DLI#5.2: 3,630,000
recovered from bank bankruptcies and
deposited into a Systemically Important

Bank (cumulative since February 1, 2014)

  

DLI#5.3: 3,630,000

 
   
   
   
      
  
  
   

DLI#5.3: EUR 110,000,000 Euros
recovered from bank bankruptcies and
deposited into a Systemically Important
Bank (cumulative since February 1, 2014)

       
 
  

        

    

    
  

DLI#6.1: All banks with at least 20% DLI#6.1:
state ownership (and not in the
privatization process) conduct an audit
and provide the information to the

Borrower’s Ministry of Finance

DLI 6. Ensure that the
Borrower and the Project
Implementing Entity have
adequate information on
the state owned banks

18,160,000

   
   

-2(-
 
   
  

   
    
   
  

Amount of the Loan
Allocated
(expressed in EUR)

  
 

Disbursement Linked
Indicator Description

   

Disbursement Linked Indicator

   

 
    
   
   
   
   
     
   
  

DLI #6.2: The Borrower has collected
information on each bank with at least
20% state ownership for at least one
calendar year since January 1, 2014,
including at least: (i) detailed financial
information; (ii) information on asset
quality; and (ili) actions needed to meet
supervision standards

DLI#6.2: 10,900,000

   

DLI#6.3: The Borrower has collected
information on each bank with at least
20% state ownership for at least two
calendar years since January 1, 2014
including at least: (i) detailed financial
information; (ii) information on asset
quality; and (iii) actions needed to meet
supervision standards

TOTAL AMOUNT

DLI#6.3: 7,270,000

 
    
   
   
   
   
    
  

     

€ 144,230,000

-21-
APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

1.

10.

“Additional Instructions” means the additional instructions referred to in Section IV.A.1
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, dated as of even date herewith, as such Additional
Instructions may be revised from time to time by the Bank and delivered to the Borrower.

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”,
dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.

“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers”
dated January 2011.

“Deposit Insurance Fund” or “DIF” means a special fund created pursuant to the
Borrower’s Law on Deposit Insurance (Official Gazette Nos. 61/2005, 116/2008 and
91/2010) and the Law on the Deposit Insurance Agency (Official Gazette Nos. 61/2005,
116/2008 and 91/2010).

“DIF Assets” means the assets of the DIF (as such term is used in the Deposit Insurance
Law).

“Disbursement-Linked Indicator” or “DLI” means an indicator, set forth in Schedule 4 of
this Agreement, the achievement of which is a condition for disbursement of Loan
Proceeds, pursuant to Section IV.B.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Financial Stability Committee” is the Borrower’s committee in charge of discussing
financial stability issues, pursuant to Article 12 of Agreement on Financial Stability
Committee, between the National Bank of Serbia, the Deposit Insurance Agency, the
Government of Serbia (represented by the Ministry of Finance), and the Securities
Commission dated, December 6, 2013, or any successor thereto.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated March 12, 2012.

“Independent Performance Audit” means the annual audit carried out by the Project
Audit Consultant, referred to in Section II.C.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

-22-
11.

16.

17.

19.

“Independent Performance Audit Report” means the report by the Project Audit
Consultant integrating the results of the Independent Performance Audit, to be prepared
and furnished to the Bank pursuant to Section II.C.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Law on Deposit Insurance” means the Borrower’s Law on Deposit Insurance (Official
Gazette Nos. 61/2005, 116/2008 and 91/2010), including any amendments thereto.

“NIBS” means the National Bank of Serbia.

“Operating Costs” means the reasonable expenditures incurred by the Project
Implementing Entity, through the PIT, for the implementation of the Project on account
of translation, interpretation, equipment maintenance and operation, travel costs
(transportation, lodging and per diem). Such costs will be financed out of the Loan
proceeds pursuant to an annual budget approved by the Bank, and according to the
Project Implementing Entity administrative procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Operating Costs shall not include salaries of officials of the Borrower’s civil service or of
staff of the Project Implementing Entity.

“PIT” means the Project implementation team under the Project Implementing Entity, in
charge of carrying out the day to day activities under the Project.

“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, dated
January 23, 2014 and referred to in paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the
same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said
paragraph.

“Project Implementing Entity’ means the Deposit Insurance Agency, created and
functioning pursuant to the Borrower’s Law on the Deposit Insurance Agency (Official
Gazette Nos. 61/2005, 116/2008 and 91/2010).

“Project Implementing Entity’s Legislation” means the Borrower’s: (i) Law on the
Deposit Insurance Agency (Official Gazette Nos. 61/2005, 116/2008 and 91/2010); (i)
Law on Deposit Insurance; (iii) Law on Assumption of Assets and Liabilities of Banks
for the Purposes of Safeguarding Stability of the Financial System of the Republic of
Serbia (Official Gazette Nos. 102/2012); (iv) Law on Banks (Official Gazette Nos.
107/2005 and 91/2010); (v) Law on Bankruptcy and Liquidation of Banks and Insurance
Companies (Official Gazette Nos. 61/2005, 116/2008 and 91/2010); (vi) Law on
Bankruptcy (Official Gazette Nos. 104/09, 99/11 and 71/12); and (vii) Privatization Law
(Official Gazette of the RoS Nos. 38/1, 18/03, 45/05, 123/07, 30/10).

“Project Audit Consultant” means an independent consultant in charge of carrying out the
Independent Performance Audit.

-23-
20.

21.

22.

23.

24.

“Project Operations Manual” means the manual referred in Section I.D.1 of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, setting forth the operational and administrative responsibilities,
procedures and rules for the implementation of the Project.

“Scalable DLIs” means DLI 1.1, 1,2, or 1.3, or DLI 2.1, or DLI 2.2, the degree of
achievement of which by a certain date specified in Schedule 4 to this Agreement shall
determine the disbursement of the amount individually allocated to such DLIs, on a
proportional basis, pursuant to a formula set forth in the Project Operations Manual.

“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.B of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, pursuant to which the Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan
available to the Project Implementing Entity.

“Systemically Important Bank” means a Systemically Important Bank, as defined
pursuant to an agreement between the NBS and the Ministry of Finance, in accordance
with the provisions of the Borrower’s Banking Law, and any amendments thereto
(Official Gazette 107/2005 and 91/2010).

“Transfers to DIF” means periodic transfers of funds to the foreign currency account of
the DIF out of the proceeds of the Loan through the designated account (as defined in the
Additional Instructions) for the purposes of the Project Implementing Entity providing
deposit insurance services and carrying out any bank resolution obligations, in
accordance with the Borrower’s applicable laws and regulations; as such transfers shall
be made in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, the Additional Instructions,
and on the basis of the criteria and calculations set forth in the Project Operations
Manual.

-24-
