Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

| OFFICIAL
| DOCUMENTS

 

 

LOAN NUMBER 8347-CN

Loan Agreement

~

(HaJia Railway Project)
between
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION

AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated Ate CF - 2014

 

 
LOAN NUMBER 8347-CN

LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT dated 1. cd 2014, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF
CHINA (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01. The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

1.02. Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Loan
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in

the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II —- LOAN

2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of three hundred million Dollars
($300,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to
this Agreement (“Project”).

2.02. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

2.03. The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal t to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.

2.04. The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days (30), then the interest payable by
the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(e) of the
General Conditions.

2.05. The Payment Dates are April 1 and October 1 in each year.
2.06. The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the

2.07.

3.01.

3.02.

4.01.

5.01.

amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

(a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn and outstanding
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa, or from a Variable
Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed
Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate.

(b) Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that

is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.

ARTICLE II —- PROJECT

The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this -

end, the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project
Implementing Entity in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and the Project Agreement. |

Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and

except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall —

ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.

ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Finance.

ee ee ee eee ee.

---~
5.02. The Borrower’s Address is:
Ministry of Fmance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People’s Republic of China
Facsimile:
86-10-6855-1125 -

5.03. The Bank’s Address is:

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development

1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America

Cable address: Telex: Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 248423(MCI or 1-202-477-6391

Washington, D.C. 64145(MCD .
~4-

AGREED at Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first.
above written. |

PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

. BFS

Authorized Representative
Name Y, . yA ow,

Title Ouyarryg Bo rector ~ Geneve
tres of Fraga .
INTERNATIONAL BANK FGR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By AMA | .
Authorized Representative
= Name KI. Sans Si Cok /
\

Title Ceaewtng ONecfer - Clrra,

 
5.

SCHEDULE 1
Project Description

The objective of the Project is to improve accessibility and mobility by
responding to existing and anticipated transport demand along the Harbin-Jiamusi
corridor through the provision of additional railway capacity and reduction of transport
time for passengers and freight.

The Project consists of the following part, subject to such modifications thereof
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objective: .

Part A: Railway Line

1. Construction of a 343 km-long double-track, electrified, mixed-use (passenger
and freight) railway line between the northern cities of Harbin and Jiamusi in.
Heilongjiang Province, as well as track sections connecting the railway line to
existing stations at Harbin and Jiamusi cities, including construction of twelve
new stations, upgrading of the existing Jiamusi station, provision of related
technical services, acquisition and installation of goods, maintenance facilities
and equipment, and rolling stock, as well as land acquisition and resettlement of

Displaced Persons.
-6-

SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I. Financing and Implementation Arrangements
A. Financing Arrangements
l. For the purposes of carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall make-available to

the Project Implementing Entity the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to
time to the Categories set forth in the table 1 in Section IV of this Schedule, on the
following principal terms: .

(a) The orincipal amount shall be made available in Dollars or any other
Currency as the Loan may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion (such principal amount determined on the date, or
respective dates, of withdrawal from the Loan Account) of the value of
the currency or currencies so withdrawn.

(b) The principal amount so made available (including an amount equal to
the fee paid pursuant to Section 2.03 of this Agreement) shall be
recovered over a period of thirty (30) years, inclusive of a grace period of
six and a half (6.5) years.

(c) Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest
applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to the provisions of
Section 2.04 of this Agreement. .

2. The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to: (a) manage,
operate, monitor, transfer and reconcile the proceeds of the Loan made available
to it pursuant to paragraph 1 above in accordance with arrangements and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank; (b) take all required actions, including
provision of timely consents and approvals as may. be necessary, to facilitate the
utilization of said Loan proceeds and the implementation of the Project, and to
comply with its undertakings under the Project Agreement; and (c) maintain all
relevant records and documents related to the Loan and the Project and provide |
promptly such documents and records, including all other information, as may be
requested by the Borrower or the Bank from time to time. .

B. _—‘ Anti-Corruption —

The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.

 
Safeguards

The Borrower shall take, and shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to take,
all measures necessary to comply with, or al] measures necessary to enable the
Project Implementing Entity to comply with, the provisions of Section I.C of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement.

Institutional

The Borrower shall cause Heilongjiang Province: (a) to provide full support,
cooperation and assistance, and to take al] necessary actions, including provision
of timely consents and approvals, as may be required for facilitating the
implementation of the Project and to enable the Borrower and the Project
Implementing Entity to comply with their undertakings under this Agreement;
and (b) to maintain all relevant records and documents related to the Project and
provide promptly such documents and records, including all other information, as
may be requested by the Borrower or the Bank from time to time.

Section I. Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation

Project Reports —

The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and cause
the Project Implementing Entity to prepare Project Reports in accordance with
the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the
indicators agreed with the Bank and contained in the Results Framework. Each
Project Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar semester and shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the
period covered by such: report, starting with the first full semester after the date
of this Agreement.

Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits

The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.

Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
cause the Project Implementing Entity to prepare and furnish to the Bank, not
later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar semester, interim un-
audited financial reports for the Project covering the semester, 1 in form and:
substance satisfactory to the Bank.

The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to have its Financial
Statements audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the
 

-§-

Genera! Conditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period
of one (1) Fiscal Year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for
each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after
the end of such period. The Borrower shall make, or cause the Project
Implementing Entity to make, the audited Financial Statements publicly available
in‘a timely fashion and in a manner acceptable to the Bank.

Section III. Procurement

A. General |
1. Goods, Works, and Non-consulting Services. All goods, works and non-

consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in
Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.

2. Consultants’ Services. Al] consultants’ services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and
with the provisions of this Section. | | |

3. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of all goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
carried out by a qualified independent procurement agent, acceptable to the Bank,
engaged by the Project Implementing Entity.

A. Definitions. The capitalized.terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts
refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and Il of the Procurement
Guidelines, or Sections II, If, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.

B. Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works, and Non-consulting |

Services

l. International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in
paragraph 2 below, goods, works, and non-consulting services shall be procured under
- contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.

2. Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works, and Non-consulting
Services. The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be
used for procurement of goods, works, and non-consulting services for those contracts
specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the
additional provisions set forth in the box below; (b) Shopping; and (c) Direct Contracting.
 
 
    

The procedures applicable to the procurement of goods, works, and non-consulting
services under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding (NCB)
shall be the open tendering procedures set forth in the Borrower’s Law on Tendering
and Bidding promulgated by its Order No. 21 dated August 30, 1999; provided,
however, that such procedures shall be subject to the provisions of Section I of,
Paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of Section Il of, and Appendix 1 to, the Procurement
Guidelines, and the additional provisions in the following. In the event of a conflict
between the Borrower’s procedures and these NCB Procedure Modifications, the latter

shall govern.

 
       
   
   
       
    

(i) Eligibility to participate-in a procurement process and to be awarded a Bank-
financed contract shall be as defined under Section I of the Procurement
Guidelines; accordingly, no bidder or potential bidder shall be declared
ineligible for such contract for reasons other than those provided in Section I of
the Procurement Guidelines. No restriction based on nationality of bidders and
/ or origin of goods shall apply, and foreign bidders shall be allowed to

participate in NCB without application of restrictive conditions.

    
     
     
   
  
 

 
 

All invitations to prequalify or bid shall be advertised in a newspaper of wide
circulation in the Borrower’s country, or on a widely used website / electronic
portal with free national and international access acceptable to the Bank, except
for goods or non-consulting services contracts that are estimated to cost less | .
than $300,000 equivalent each or works contracts that are estimated to less than |

$2,000,000 each, which may be advertised in a provincial daily newspaper.
Such advertisement shall be made in sufficient time for prospective bidders to |
obtain prequalification or bidding documents and prepare and submit their
responses. In any event, a minimum of thirty (30) days shall be given to bidders |
between the date of such advertisement in‘such newspaper and the deadline for
submission of bids, and the advertisement (or the date of availability of bidding
documents, whichever is later) and the deadline for the submission of bids, and
the advertisement and bidding documents ‘shall specify the deadline for the
submission of bids. In the case of such advertisement on a website / electronic
portal, the notice shall remain readily accessible nationally and internationally
until at least the deadline for the submission of bids. Potential bidders shall be
allowed to inspect and purchase bidding documents at any time prior to the
deadline for the submission of bids.

 
     
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 

Standard Bidding Documents acceptable to the Bank shall be used.

  
  
 

 
 

Qualification requirements of bidders and the method of evaluating the
qualification of each bidder shall be specified in detail in the bidding
documents.

    
  

    

  

procedures and documents acceptable to the Bank shall be used

 

Prec ualification
  
 

| Ww)

(vii)

(viii)

(ix)
(x)

(xi)

(xii)

 

opportunity of registering (if required) before contract signing without any let or

‘because the number of bids is less than three (3), and rejection of all bids or

-10-

 
 

for large, complex, and / or specialized works. Verification of the information
upon which a bidder was prequalified, including current commitments, shall be
carried out at the time of contract award, along with the bidder’s capability with
respect to personnel and equipment. All bidders that meet the qualification
criteria set out in the prequalification documents shall be allowed to bid, and
there shall be no limit on the number of pre-qualified bidders. - Where
prequalification is not used, the qualification of the bidder who is recommended
for award of contract shall be assessed by post-qualification, applying the
qualification criteria stated in the bidding documents.

 
       
   
   
 
     

Registration shall not be used to assess bidders’ qualifications. A bidder shall
not be required to register as a condition for inspecting or purchasing bidding
documents, submitting its bid or receiving contract award. A bidder determined
to be the lowest evaluated responsive bidder shall be given reasonable

    
      
   

hindrance. Bidding shall not be restricted to any particular class of contractors,
and non-classified contractors shall also be eligible to bid.

 
   
 

No margins of preference of any sort shall be given to bidders, such as on the
basis of their location, place of incorporation, or affinity with the geographical
area in which the Project activities will take place. —

 
      

All bidders who are awarded works contracts and single-responsibility contracts
shall be required to provide security in an amount sufficient to protect the
Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity / Entities, as the case may be, in
case of breach of contract by the contractor, and the bidding documents shall
specify the required form and amount of such security and any other potential
damages for such breach.

 
         
   
 

Bidders shall be allowed to submit bids by mail or in person.

   

All bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be offered an opportunity to
be present (either in person or through their representatives) at the time of bid
opening, but bidders shall not be required to be present at the bid opening.

 
   
   
 

All bid evaluation criteria shall be disclosed in the bidding documents and
quantified in monetary terms or expressed in the form of pass / fail
requirements.

 
     
    

No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price exceeds any cost
estimate or falls outside any margin or bracket of prices or average bids
established by the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity / Entities, as the
case may be. Rejection of all bids or rebidding shall not be allowed solely

 
 
    
   
 

rebidding shall not take agreement.

ylace without the Bank’s prior written

   

wate.
-ll-

  

Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated responsive bidder, that
is, the bidder who meets the appropriate standards of capability and resources
and whose bid has been determined: (A) to be substantially responsive to the
bidding documents; and (B) to offer the lowest evaluated cost. The winning
bidder shall not be required, as a condition of award, to undertake
responsibilities for work or to assume other obligations not stipulated in the
bidding documents or otherwise to modify the bid as originally submitted. No
negotiations shall be permitted except with the Bank’s no-objection.

    
       
   
   
   
    

(xiv) In accordance with the Procurement Guidelines, each bidding document and
contract shall include provisions stating the Bank’s policy to sanction firms or
individuals found to have engaged in fraud and corruption as set forth in the
Procurement Guidelines. |

      
 

(xv) In accordance with the Procurement Guidelines, each bidding document and

contract shall include provisions stating the Bank’s policy with respect to
inspection and audit of accounts, records, and other documents relating to the
submission of bids and contract performance.

      
    
  

   

.Government-owned enterprises in the Borrower’s country may be permitted to
bid or submit a proposal of goods, works, or non-consulting services if they can
establish that they: (A) are legally and financially autonomous; (B) operate
under commercial law; and (C) are not a dependent agency of the agency
conducting the procurement.

(xvi)

      
     
 

(xvii) Matters such as subcontracting, joint venture relationships, and assignment of
contract shall be handled in accordance with the bidding documents.

 
 
     

(xviii) The results of bid evaluation and contract award shall be published in the
national or provincial press (as provided under paragraph (ii) above) or official
gazette or a free and open-access website and shall identify: (A) the name of
each bidder who submitted a bid; (B) bid prices as read out at bid opening;
(C) the name of the bidder, and the evaluated price, of each bid that was
evaluated; (D) the names of bidders whose bids were either rejected as non-
responsive or not meeting qualification criteria, or not evaluated, with the
reasons therefor; and (E) the name of the winning bidder and the final total
contract price, as well as the duration and summary scope of the contract. Such
publication shall be within two (2) weeks of receiving the Bank’s no-objection
to the award recommendation for contracts subject to the Bank’s prior review,
and within two (2) weeks of the Borrower’s or the Project Implementing
Entity’s award decision for contracts subject to the Bank’s post review. The
bidding documents shall disclose the newspaper in which and / or the electronic

‘ means by which the information on contract award will be published.

   
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
      
   
  
 

(xix)

 

 

.12-

 

The Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity / Entities, as the case may be,
shall have in place an effective and independent protest mechanism for
bidders to protest. The bidding documents shall provide the professional title
and address of the official to whom such protests should be sent.

  

 

Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services

Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.

Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following
methods, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants’ services for those contracts which are specified in
the Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based Selection; (b) Selection based on
Consultants’ Qualifications; (c) Single-source Selection of consulting. firms;
(d) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines
for the Selection of Individual Consultants; and (e) Single-source procedures for
the Selection of Individual Consultants. |

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shal! be subject to the
Bank’s Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank. | .

Section IV. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

A.

1.

 

General

- The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the

provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures,
inclusive of taxes, as set.forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
~13-

2. The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.

 
   
  

  
   
  
  

Percentage of
Expenditures to be
financed
(inclusive of Taxes)

(1) Goods, works and 299,250,000 100%
consultant’s services

(2) Front-end Fee 750,000 Amount payable
pursuant to Section 2.03
of this Agréement in

.| accordance with .
Section 2.07(b) of the
General Conditions

Amount of the Loan
Allocated
(expressed in USD)

  
     

  
 
 

Category

   
       
  
      
 
  

    
   

     

300,000,000
B. | Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

1. Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.

2. The Closing Date is Décember 31, 2020.
-14-

SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule

1. The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date (“Installment Share”). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan: repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal

- Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.

Principal Payment Date | Installment Share
xpressed as a Percentage

On each April 1 and October 1
2.13%

 

  
  
  

         
   
 

    
 

 

Beginning October 1,.2020
through April 1, 2043

On October 1, 2043 |

   

2. If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal

Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:

(a) To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay -the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1
of this Schedule.

(b) | Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”)
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies. |
-15-

(a) Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated
as withdrawn and. outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.

(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph. (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (1) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction, relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. |

If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated —
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a ‘separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.
-16-

APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

l. “Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006, and revised in January 2011.

2. “Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement. "

3, “Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 2011. _

4. “Displaced Persons” means persons who, on account of the execution of the

. Project, have experienced or would experience direct economic and social

impacts caused by: (i) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (a) relocation

or loss of shelter; (b) loss of assets or access to assets; or (c) loss of income

sources or means of livelihood, whether or not such persons must move to

another location; or (ii) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated

parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such
persons; and a “Displaced Person” means any of such Displaced Persons. |

. 5. “Environmental Management Framework” or the acronym “EMF means the
framework for environmental impact assessment dated November 1, 2013, and
duly adopted by the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity, which sets
out the policies and procedures for environmental assessment and preparation of
environmental mitigation plans in respect of the Project, as well as administrative
and monitoring arrangements to erisure the implementation of said plans; as the
same may be revised from time to time with the prior written agreement of the
Bank, and such term includes all schedules and supplements to said framework.

6. “Environmental Management Plan” or the acronym “EMP” means, collectively,
(i) the environmental management plan dated November 1, 2013, and duly
adopted by the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity in respect of
implementing the Project; and (ii) all such environmental management plans that
may be prepared by the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity, in
accordance with the provision of the Environmental Management Framework;
which set forth, inter alia: (a) the actions and measures to be taken for mitigating
the adverse environmental impacts resulting from the implementation of the
Project and related facilities; including access roads, construction camps and
resettlement sites; (b) the criteria and procedures for developing and
implementing actions and measures, satisfactory to the Bank, for mitigating the
adverse environmental impacts resulting from the implementation of activities in

Bee et ee ee,
10.

11.

12.

14.

15.

16.

-17-

locations that are not directly identified in the EMP; and (c) administrative and
monitoring arrangements to ensure the implementation of said plans, as the same
may be revised from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank;
and such plan includes all schedules and annexes supplemental thereto.

“Fiscal Year” means the fiscal year of the Borrower, covering the period January
] through December 31.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated March 12, 2012.

“Harbin” means the city of Harbin in Heilongjiang Province, or any successor
thereto.

“Heilongjiang Province” means the Borrower’s Province of ‘Heilongjiang, or any
successor thereto.

“HRC” means Harbin-Jiamusi Railway Company Limited, a limited-liability
company established by.the Borrower, through its Ministry of Railways, in April
2011, and registered and operating under its Business License Number
230000100078962 of April 27, 2011, or any successor thereto acceptable to the
Bank,

“Implementation Letter” means the letter of commitment to be issued by HRC,
addressed to the Project Implementing Entity, committing to assist the Project
Implementing Entity in the carrying out of the Project, all in accordance with the
terms of Section I.A.! of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, as the same may
be amended from time to time.

ay jamusi” means the city.of Hiamust i in Heilongjiang ‘Province, or any. successor
thereto.

“Procurement Guidelines” means the. Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works

and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank 1 in January 2011.

“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan dated October 31,
2013, and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and
paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shail be updated from
time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.

“Project Implementing Entity” means China Railway Corporation, a fully state-
owned company established by the Borrower in March 2013, and registered and
operating under its Business License Number 100000000044567 (5-2) of March
14, 2013, or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.

1
17.

18.

19.

20.

- 18 -

“Resettlement Action Plan” or the acronym “RAP” means, collectively: (i) the
resettlement action plan of December 9, 2013 duly adopted by the Borrower and
the Project Implementing Entity in respect of Project implementation; and (11) all
such resettlement action plans that may be prepared by the Borrower and the
Project Implementing Entity, in accordance with the provisions of the
Resettlement Policy Framework which set forth, inter alia: (a) the principles and
procedures governing the acquisition of land required for the Project and related
facilities, including access roads, construction camps and resettlement sites; (b)
actions and measures for the payment of compensation to Displaced Persons and
for their resettlement and rehabilitation; (c) the criteria and procedures for
developing and implementing actions and measures, satisfactory to the Bank, for
mitigating the adverse social impacts resulting from the implementation of.
activities in locations that are not directly identified in the RAP; and (d) reporting
and monitoring arrangements to ensure compliance with said plan, as the same
may be revised from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank; —
and such plan includes all schedules and annexes supplemental thereto.

“Resettlement Policy Framework” or the acronym “RPF” means _ the
Resettlement Policy Framework of December 9, 2013, prepared and duly adopted
by the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity, acceptable to the Barik,
and that sets forth the policies and procedures for the acquisition of land and
other assets, compensation, resettlement and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons,
and for the preparation of resettlement action plans as may be required for .
Project activities, as said Framework may be revised from time to time with the
prior written agreement of the Bank; and such term includes all schedules and
agreements supplemental to said Framework.

‘Results Framework” means the Project Implementing Entity’s framework, dated
February 13, 2014 and agreed with the Bank, setting forth the indicators and
targets for purposes of:monitoring and evaluation of the progress of the Project,
as the same may be modified from time to time with the prior written agreement
of the Bank, and such term includes any annexes, appendices, or schedules to
such framework.

“Safeguards Instruments” means, collectively, the Environmental Management
Framework, the Environmental Management Plan, the Resettlement Policy
Framework and the Resettlement Action Plan, and such term includes any
annexes or schedules to such instruments.
