Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

 

a |

LOAN NUMBER 8435-PH

Loan Agreement

(Third Development Policy Loan to Foster More Inclusive Growth)
between
RE)?UBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated OCTOBER / , 2014

 

 

 

 
LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT dated OCTOBER /4 , 2014, entered into between the
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPFINES (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing
financing in support of the Prozram (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The
Bank has decided to provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of (a) the actions
which the Borrower has already taken under the Program and which are described in
Section I of Schedule | to this Agreement, and (b) the Borrower’s maintenance of an
adequate macroeconomic policy framework. The Borrower and the Bank therefore
hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01. The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

 

Fr 1.02. Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
be Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Areement.

ARTICLE If — LOAN

eerie nefpcntayecrr— ship emmin-amem, anger —
DL ge Goa Fe i oped Ss

2.01. The Bank agrees to lerid to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or

referred to in this Ayreement, the amount of three hundred million Dollars
. ($300,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
e Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this
Agreement ("Loan").

AIT tw Me MELT
yates,
Mi ee,

ye Om pee er rpm
cn Lay. og hy chp wets, 4 rye
Ey. SOM e tat geek, Lara

2.02. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program
in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

2.03. The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.

2.04. The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Referenc2 Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the Generat Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by
the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(e) of the
General Conditions.

 
2.05.

2.06.

2.07.

2.08.

-2-

The Payment Dates ar2 May 15 and November 15 in each year.

The principal amourt of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

(a)

(b)

(c)

The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms cf the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change cf the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or
(B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable ‘spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate.

Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in
the General ‘Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.

Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance
with Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section II of
Schedule | to this Agreement.

Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 of Section II of the Appendix to this
Agreement and relating to Cooperation and Consultation), the Borrower shall
promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this
Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request.
3.01.

4.01.

5.01.

5.02.

6.01.

6.02.

-3-

ARTICLE Ili — PROGRAM

The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.
To this end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions:

(a)

(b)

(c)

the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of
either party, exchange views on the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy
framework and the progress achieved in carrying out the Program;

prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request; and

without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
Section, the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation
that would hive the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the
Program or any action taken under the Program.

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK

The Additional Event of Suspension is that a situation has arisen which shall
make it improbable tiat the Program, or a significant part of it, will be carried

out.

ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists is that the Bank is satisfied
with the progress acheved by the Borrower in carrying out the Program and with
the adequacy of the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework.

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.

ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

The Borrower’s Representative is its Secretary of Finance.

The Borrower’s Address is:

Department cf Finance
Department cf Finance Building
Bangko Sentral Complex

Roxas Blvd.

Manila, Philippines
Facsimile:

(63-2) 526-9990
(63-2) 523-9216

6.03. The Bank’s Address 13:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.-
Washington, |9.C. 20433
United States of America

Cable address: Telex: Facsimile:

INTBAFRAL? 248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 64145(MCI)
-5-

AGREED at Manila, Republic of the Philippines, as of the day
and year first above written.

REPUBLIC OF PHILIPPINES

ASORS

Authorized Representative

By

Name: CESAR V. PURISINA,

Title: Secretary _

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By
Authorized Representative

Name: MOTOO Kons?

Title: Coun/7TRY DIRECTOR, PA/JUIPPINES

 
-6-

SCHEDULE 1

Program \ctions; Availability of Loan Proceeds

Section I. Actions under the Program

The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following:

l.

The Borrower has advanced the implementation of the DPWH_ public
infrastructure prograrm by: (i) contracting out over 80% of the combined 2012
and 2013 capital expenditure budget by January 1, 2014; and (11) contracting out
over 50% of the 2014 capital expenditure by June 30, 2014.

The Borrower, through the DPWH, has delivered contract works under the TRIP
network preparation process and resulting plan.

The Borrower has issued the 2014 GAA, which requires: (i) that DPWH
implement the Regular FMR Program; and (ii) that DA provide and disclose the
network plan for Regular FMR Program projects.

The DTI has improved online functionality of the PBR for national registration,
including ePayments.

The Borrower has advanced the preparation of NHTS-PR II in the following
ways: (i) revision of the operational manual to reflect lessons learned from the
previous assessment; (ii) field workers have been hired and trained using
standard training tools; (iii) IT-enabled data collection and encoding has been
developed and tested; (iv) arrangements for spot checks to monitor reassessment
processes are in place

The Borrower has extended CCT Program coverage to children up to 18 years of
age.

The Borrower has used NHTS-PR to target at least 3 major government programs
to the lowest 40 percent of the population, including evidence that PhilHealth has
achieved effective enrollment of poor and near poor in the bottom 40 percent of
the population.

The Borrower has adlopted a Unified Account Code Structure for accounting,
budgetary and treasury transactions and implemented this as part of
the 2014 budget preparation and implementation.

The Philippines Open Data portal (data.gov.ph) has become fully operational
with full electronic access to over 600 datasets.
-7-

The Borrower has itaplemented the following revenue-related reforms: (1) a
tobacco and alcohol excise tax reform; and (ii) the completion and on-line
publication of a tax expenditure statement concerning fiscal incentives for
investment.

The Borrower has strengthened fiscal risk management through the disclosure of
broad risks in the annual fiscal risk statement, and explicit and increased
contingency allocaticns in the 2014 budget (risk management program and
NDRRMF).

Section II. Availability of Loan Proceeds

A.

General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance
with the provisions o!’ this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank
may specify by notice to the Borrower.

Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan (except for amounts required to pay the
Front-end Fee) is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche, from which the
Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds. The allocation of the
amounts of the Loan t9 this end is set out in the table below:

Allocations Amount of the Loan

  
  
  
  
   
   

Allocated
| expressed in United States Dollars
Single Withdrawal 299,250,000
Tranche ._
2. Front-end Fee 750,000
3. Amount due pursuant to 0
Section 2.07(c) of this
Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT | 300,000,000

Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions.

No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank
is satisfied (a) with the Program being carried out by the Borrower, and (b) with
the adequacy of the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework.

Deposits of Loan Aniounts.

Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:
-8-

l. all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank
into an account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank;
and

2. the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the

Loan into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the
Borrower’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the
Bank.

E. Excluded Expenditures. The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the
Loan shall not be used to finence Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines at any
time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an Excluded
Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund an amount
equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon
such request shall be cancelleil.

F. Closing Date. The Closing Date is December 31, 2015.
9.

SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule

l. The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date (“Instailment Share’).If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying:(a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.

 
  
  
  
   

Installment Share
Principal Payment Date (Expressed as a Percentage)

On each May 15 and November 15; 3.33%
Beginning November 15, 2024
through November 15, 2038

On May 15, 2039 3.43%

2. If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:

(a) To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph |
of this Schedule.

(b) Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on earch Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal i1 amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of eazh such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph | of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”)
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such an.ounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
-10-

amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.

(a) Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating
the principal «mounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated
as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Pay:inent Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.

(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time ihe Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are i:.sued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions o! such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals rnade after the adoption of such billing system.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs | and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, ihe amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that re“lects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank. under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.

If the Withdrawn Loaa Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.
-ll-

APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

l.

‘10.

ll.

“CCT Program” mear's Conditional Cash Transfer Program, otherwise known as
the Pantawid Pamilyang Pilipino Program, the Borrower’s program for the
assistance of poor families through the provision of cash transfers conditional on
compliance with the conditions referred to in the CCT Program Legal
Framework and the CCT Program Operations Manual (both as_ hereinafter
defined)

“CCT Program Legil Framework” means the framework of the Borrower
establishing the CCl’ Program and comprising among others the following:
(a) Memorandum Circular No. 09, Series of 2007, for Creating the Ahon Pamilya
National Advisory Committees and Defining their Roles and Responsibilities;
(b) Administrative Order No. 16, Series of 2008, for Guidelines on the
Implementation of Pantawid Pamilyang Pilipino Program; (c) Joint
Memorandum Circulir No. 01, Series of 2009, for Defining the Institutional
Arrangements for the Implementation, Monitoring and Evaluation of the
Pantawid Pamilya Painilyang Pilipino Program, as may be revised from time to
time.

“CCT Program Operitions Manual” means the Borrower’s manual for the CCT
Program, dated September 24, 2009, as may be revised from time to time.

“COA” means Commission on Audit, the Borrower’s supreme audit institution
established under Article [X-D of the prevailing Constitution of the Borrower, or
any successor thereto.

“DA” means the Borrower’s Department of Agriculture, or any successor thereto.

“DBM” means the Borrower’s Department of Budget and Management, or any
successor thereto.

“DOH” means the Borrower’s Department of Health, or any successor thereto.
“DOT” means the Borrower’s Department of Tourism, or any successor thereto.

“DPWH” means the Borrower’s Department of Public Works and Highways, or
any successor thereto

“DTI” means the Borrower’s Department of Trade and Industry, or any successor
thereto.

“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure:
(a)

(b)

    

(c)

(d)

-12-

for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
international ‘financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit,
or grant;

for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the
Borrower:

Sub-group Description of Item

Alcoholic beverages

Tobacco, un-manufactured,
tobacco refuse

Tobacco, manufactured (whether
or not containing tobacco
substitutes)

Radioactive and associated
materials

Pearls, precious and semiprecious
| stones, unworked or worked
718.7 Nuclear reactors, and parts
thereof; fuel elements
(cartridges), non-irradiated, for
| nuclear reactors

728.43 Tobacco processing machine
897.3 Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals (except
watches and watch cases) and
goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’
wares (including set gems)
Gold, non-monetary (excluding
gold ores and concentrates)

for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
consumption:

for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international
agreements to which the Borrower is a party;
19.

20.

-13-

(e) on account cf any payment prohibited by a decision of the United
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the
United Natioris; and

(f) with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent,
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the
Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower
(or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action
satisfactory tc the Bank to address such practices when they occur.

“Regular FMR Program” means the Regular Farm to Market Road Program.
“GAA” means General Appropriations Act, the annual budget of the Borrower.

“General Conditions’’ means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development Genera! Conditions for Loans”, dated March 12, 2012 with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.

“NDRRMF” means National Disaster Risk Reduction Management Fund.

‘“NHTS-PR” means National Household Targeting System for Poverty
Reduction.

“PBR” means the Philippine Business Registry, the electronic business
registration system set up by the Borrower for the purpose of streamlining
business registration procedures by providing interconnectivity between relevant
agencies of the Borrower.

“PhilHealth” means tne Philippine Health Insurance Corporation, an entity fully
owned and controlled by the Borrower and operating under the authority of the
DOH, established pursuant to the Borrower’s National Health Insurance Act of
February 14, 1995 (Fepublic Act No. 7875) with the mandate to provide social
health insurance coverage to all Filipinos, or any successor thereto.

“Philippines Open Data portal” means the online platform and repository of data
of the Borrower.

“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or
referred to in the letter dated September 2, 2014, from the Borrower to the Bank
declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and
requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its
execution.
21.

22.

23.

_14-

“Single Withdrawal Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the
category entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of
Section If of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

“TRIP” means the Tourism Roads Infrastructure Program.
“Unified Account Code Structure” means the system combining the budget

classification structures of the COA and DBM for the purpose of enabling
financial reporting of actual expenditure against budget data.

Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions

The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:

1.

The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
Withdrawal) is deleted! in its entirety.

Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered

accordingly.

Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management;

‘Financial Statements: Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining

Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly.

Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above
and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3
above) is modified to read as follows:

“Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records

(c) The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures
under the Loan until two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower

shall enable tie Bank’s representatives to examine such records.”

Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3
above) is modified to read as follows:

Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation

Le (c) The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and
furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a
-15-

report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by the Loan
Parties and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Legal
Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.

The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in
alphabetical order to Ihe Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered
accordingly:

(a)

(b)

(c)

The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as
follows:

“*Fligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put in
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded
pursuant to the Loan Agreement.”

The term “Fitancial Statements” and its definition are deleted in their
entirety.

The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is
modified to rzad as follows (and all references to “Project” throughout
these General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program’”):

““Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in
support of which the Loan is made.”
