Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

OFFICIAL
| DOCUMENTS |

A

 

 

 

LOAN NUMBER 8378-CN

Loan Agreement

(Fujian Fishing Ports Project)
between
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION |
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated Jeli 2 , 2014

nnn AOS DAS
a 8
LOAN NUMBER 8378-CN

LOAN AGREEMENT

Agreement dated “4 2 _, 2014, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF
CHINA (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND

DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:

1.01.

1.02.

2.01.

2.02.

2.03.

2.04.

2.05.

2.06.

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.

Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this

Agreement.
ARTICLE H — LOAN

The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of sixty million Dollars ($60,000,000), as such amount
may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with
the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the
project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (‘‘Project”).

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.

The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to.
the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a

Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in

accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, tf any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains .
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02
(e) of the General Conditions.

The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07.

3.01.

3.02.

4.01.

(a)

(b)

The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (1) a change of

the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,

withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the
interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or
vice versa; or (B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a
Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference

Rate.

Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in the
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of
Article [V of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.

Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium
payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE HI — PROJECT

The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project Implementing Entity in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and the Project

Agreement. :

Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS - TERMINATION

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement.
5.01.

5.02.

5.03.

ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of F inance.
The Borrower’s Address is:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People’s Republic of China

Facsimile: 86-10-6855-1125

The Bank’s Address is:

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W. |
Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America

Cable address: Telex: Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 64145(MCI)
AGREED at Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first above written.

PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

By nd f
4, Representative

Name: x outs.

Title: an O20 227 - Crener4

fet Lud oF A’ APRA OR
INTERNATIONAL BANK FGR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

NM Ayr/

Authorized Representative

Name: Kl ones Lollo Sh

Title: Comba Diyeefor_ CLahicr

By
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to reduce the vulnerability of fishing communities to
extreme weather events in selected counties in Fujian Province.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A: Construction and Upgrading of Fishing Port Facilities
1. Construction, rehabilitation and/or upgrading of fishing port facilities in selected counties
in Fujian Province including, inter alia, breakwaters, berthing facilities, embankments,
land formations, trestle bridges, anchorages, access roads and port cottages, as well as
emergency shelters and port management cottages ashore.
Part B: Improvement of the Early Warning and Response System
I. Development and setting up of an early warning and emergency response plan for Xia’ pu
County, including comprehensive lists of actions to be carried out at different typhoon
warning levels by local authorities and fishery communities.
2. Acquisition of suitable hardware, software and communications systems necessary to

support the operation of Xia’pu County’s Emergency Response and Command Centre, as
well as the procurement of a rescue vessel and a rescue vehicle for emergency rescue

operations.
Part C: Training and Capacity Building
1. Supporting in-service training to local fishermen by, inter alia, the organization and

carrying out of training activities (including domestic and international study trips) aimed
at improving FOTS administrators’ and teachers’ capacities on school management,
advanced training on fishing, curricula development, teaching reform and project
management.

2. Developing and updating FOTS curricula and textbooks for fishermen in training,
including the design and delivery of specialized training programs and a database of
capacity-building activities for fishermen.

3. . Provision of support to FOTS for: (a) the construction, rehabilitation and/or upgrading of
in-campus teaching buildings, dormitories, and supporting training factlities; and (b)
procurement of training equipment, books and learning materials.
Part D:

Technical Support and Project Management

Provision of technical assistance and project management support to Fujian PPMO and
Xia’pu PMO through, inter alia: (a) the carrying out of training activities and delivery of
technical assistance to staff of Fujian PPMO and Xia’pu PMO, including design and
procurement documentation review, and preparation of progress reports; (b) the carrying
out of domestic and overseas study trips; (c) development of the Port Operationa! and
Maintenance Manual to enhance routine fishing ports’ management capacity and
support of Project activities; and (d) conducting independent external monitoring of
RAP and EMP implementation.
SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Section I. | Implementation Arrangements
A. Financing Arrangements
l. For the purposes of carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make available the

proceeds of the.Loan to the Project Implementing Entity, under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, including the following principal terms: |

(a) The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars or any other Currency as
the Loan may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion
(such principal amount determined on the date, or respective dates, of withdrawal |
from the Loan Account) of the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn.

(b) The principal amount so made available (including an amount equal to the fee
paid pursuant to Section 2.03 of this Agreement and any premium for Interest
Rate Caps or Interest Rate Collars paid pursuant to Section 2.07(c) of this
Agreement and Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions) shall be recovered
over a period of twenty seven (27) years, inclusive of a grace period of seven (7)

years.

(c) Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest applicable from time to
time to the Loan pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.04 of this Agreement.

2. The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to: (a) manage, operate,
monitor, transfer and reconcile the proceeds of the Loan made available to tt pursuant to
paragraph 1 above in accordance with arrangements and procedures satisfactory to the
Bank; (b) take all required actions, including provision of timely consents and approvals
as may be necessary, to facilitate the utilization of said Loan proceeds and the
implementation of the Project and, to enable the Project Implementing Entity to comply
with its undertakings under the Project Agreement; and (c) maintain all relevant records
and documents related to the Loan and the Project and provide promptly such documents
and records, including all other information, as may be requested by the Borrower or the
Bank from time to time.

B. Anti-Corruption

The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
C. Safeguards

The Borrower shall, and shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to, take all measures
necessary to comply with the provisions of Section I.C of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement.

Section II. Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. Project Reports |

l. The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to monitor and evaluate the
progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in the
Results Framework. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one (I) calendar
semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than sixty (60) days after the end of
the period covered by such report. |

B. Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits

I. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions.

2. Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall cause
the Project Implementing Entity to prepare and furnish to the Bank, as part of the Project
Report, not later than sixty (60) days after the end of cach calendar semester, interim
unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the semester, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank.

The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to have its Financial
Statements audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General
Conditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal
year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period. The
Borrower shall make, or cause the Project Implementing Entity to make, the audited
Financial Statements publicly available in a timely fashion and tn a manner acceptable to
the Bank.

»

Section II. Procurement

A. General
l. Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. All goods, works and non-consulting

services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and
with the provisions of this Section.

Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to
the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the Procurement Guidelines,
or Sections II; III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.

Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services

International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2
below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.

Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services.

The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used for
procurement of goods, works, and non-consulting services for those contracts specified in
the Procurement Plan: (a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional
provisions set forth in the box below; (b) Direct Contracting; and (c) Shopping.

The procedures applicable to the procurement of goods, works, and non-consulting
services under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding
(“NCB”) shall be the open tendering procedures set forth in the Borrower’s Law on
Tendering and Bidding promulgated by its Order No, 21 dated August 30, 1999;
provided, however, that such procedures shall be subject to the provisions of Section I,
Paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of Section III, and Appendix 1 of the Procurement Guidelines,
and the additional provisions in the following. In the event of a conflict between the:
Borrower’s procedures and these NCB Procedure Modifications, the latter shall

govern.

(i). Eligibility to participate in a procurement process and to be awarded a Bank-
financed contract shall be as defined under Section I of the Procurement
Guidelines; accordingly, no bidder or potential bidder shall be declared
ineligible for such contract for reasons other than those provided in Section I
of the Procurement Guidelines. No restriction based on nationality of bidders
and/or origin of goods shall apply, and foreign bidders shall be allowed to
participate in NCB without application of restrictive conditions.

(11) All invitations to prequalify or bid shall be advertised in a national newspaper
of wide circulation in the Borrower’s country, or on a widely used website /
electronic portal with free national and international access acceptable to the
Bank except for goods or non-consulting services contracts that are estimated

9.
  

to cost less than $300,000 equivalent each, or works contracts that are
estimated to cost less than $2,000,000 each, which may be advertised in a
provincial daily newspaper. Such advertisement shall be made in sufficient
time for prospective bidders to obtain prequalification or bidding documents
and prepare and submit their responses. In any event, a minimum of thirty
(30) days shall be given to bidders between the date of such adverttsement (or
the date of availability of bidding documents, whichever is later) and the
deadline for the submission of bids, and the advertisement and bidding
documents shall specify the deadline for the submission of bids. In the case of
such advertisement on a website / electronic portal, the notice shall remain
readily accessible nationally and internationally until at least the deadline for
the submission of bids. Potential bidders shall be allowed to inspect and
purchase bidding documents at any time prior to the deadline for the
’ submission of bids.

 
     
      
   
   
   
   
   
     
   
   
     
 

Standard Bidding Documents acceptable to the Bank shall be used.

(iv) Qualification requirements of bidders and the method of evaluating the |
qualification of each bidder shall be specified in detail in the bidding
documents.

    
   
  
 

  

Prequalification procedures and documents acceptable to the Bank shall be
used for large, complex and/or specialized works. Verification of the
information upon which a bidder was prequalified, including current
commitments, shall be carried out at the time of contract award, along with the
bidder’s capability with respect to personnel and equipment. All bidders that
meet the qualification criteria set out in the pre-qualification documents shall
be allowed to bid, and there shall be no limit on the number of pre-qualifted
bidders. Where pre-qualification is not used, the qualification of the bidder
who is recommended for award of contract shall be assessed by post-
qualification, applying the qualification criteria stated in the. bidding
documents.

 
     
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 

(vi) Registration shall not be used to assess bidders’ qualifications. A bidder shall
not be required to register as a condition for inspecting or purchasing bidding
documents, submitting its bid or receiving contract award. A. bidder
determined to be the lowest evaluated responsive bidder, shall be given
reasonable opportunity of registering (if required) before contract signing
without any let or hindrance. Bidding shail not be restricted to any particular
class of contractors, and non-classified contractors shall also be eligible to bid.

 
        
      
    

No margins of preference of any sort shall be given to bidders, such as on the
basis of their location, place of incorporation, or affinity with the geographical
area in which the Project activities will take place.

 
   
   
   

All bidders who are awarded contracts for works and single-responsibili

-10-
  

contracts shall be required to provide performance security in an amount
sufficient to protect the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity / Entities,
as the case may be, in case of breach of contract by the contractor, and the
bidding documents shall specify the required form and amount of such security
and any other potential damages for such breach.

    
     
   
   
  
 

Bidders shall be allowed to submit bids by mail or in person.

  

(x) All bids shall be opened in public; afl bidders shall be offered an opportunity
to be present (either in person or through their representatives) at the time of
bid opening, but bidders shall not be required to be present at the bid opening.

    
  

 
 

All bid evaluation criteria shall be disclosed in the bidding documents and
quantified in monetary terms or expressed in the form of pass/fail
requirements.

 
   
 

(xii) | No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price exceeds any cost
estimate or falls outside any margin or bracket of prices or average bids
established by the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity / Entities, as
the case may be. Rejection of all bids or re-bidding shall not be allowed solely
because the number of bids is less than three (3), and rejection of all bids or
rebidding shall not take place without the Bank’s prior written agreement.

 
   
       
   
 

(xiii) | Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated responsive bidder, that
is, the bidder who meets the appropriate standards of capability and resources
and whose bid has been determined: (A) to be substantially responsive to the
bidding documents; and (B) to offer the lowest evaluated cost. The winning
bidder shall not be required, as a condition of award, to undertake
responsibilities for work or to assume other obligations not stipulated in the
bidding documents or otherwise to modify the bid as originally submitted. No
negotiations shall be permitted except with the Bank’s no-objection.

 
   
       
   
      

(xiv) In accordance with the Procurement Guidelines, each bidding document and
contract shall include provisions stating the Bank’s policy to sanction firms or
individuals found to have engaged in fraud and corruption as set forth in the
Procurement Guidelines. -

    
     
   
 

  

In accordance with the Procurement Guidelines, each bidding document and
contract shall include provisions stating the Bank’s policy with respect to
inspection and audit of accounts, records and other documents relating to the
_ submission of bids and contract performance. |

 
     
    

Government-owned enterprises in the Borrower’s country may be permitted to
bid or submit a proposal of goods, works, or non-consulting services if they
can establish that they: (A) are legally and financially autonomous; (B) operate
under commercial law; and (C) are not a dependent agency of the agenc

 
       

-ll-
conducting the procurement.

(xvii) Matters such as subcontracting, joint venture relationships and assignment of
contract shall be handled in accordance with the bidding documents.

(xviii) The results of bid evaluation and contract award shall be published in the
national or provincial press (as provided under paragraph (ii) above) or official

_ gazette or a free and open-access website and shall identify: (A) the name of

each bidder who submitted a bid; (B) bid prices as read out at bid opening; (C)

the name of the bidder, and the evaluated price, of each bid that was evaluated;

(D) the names of bidders whose bids were either rejected as non-responsive or

not meeting qualification criteria, or not evaluated, with the reasons therefor,

and (E) the name of the winning bidder and the final total contract price, as

well as the duration and summary scope of the contract. Such publication shall
be within two (2) weeks of receiving the Bank’s no-objection to the award
recommendation for contracts subject to the Bank’s prior review, and within
two (2) weeks of the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity’s award
decision for contracts subject to the Bank’s post review. The bidding
documents shall disclose the newspaper in which and / or the electronic means
by which the information on contract award will be published.

The Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity / Entities, as the case may
be, shall have in place an effective and independent protest mechanism for
bidders to protest. The bidding documents shall provide the professional title
and address of the official to whom such protests should be sent.

Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
Quality and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality
and Cost-based Selection.

Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection,
which may be used for consultants’ services. The Procurement Plan shall specify the
circumstances under which such methods may be used:

.12-

 
 
 

 
   
      

D. Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s
Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.

Section IV. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. General

I. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World Bank
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by
the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to
finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.

2. The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible
Expenditures tn each Category.

-13-
   
 

Percentage of Expenditures
to be Financed
inclusive of Taxes

    
   
 

  

  

Category Amount of the Loan
Allocated
expressed in USD’

(1) Civil works under:

     
  

50,013,500

     
     
   
    
   

 

(a) Part A of the Project;

(b) Part C of the Project. 2,896,800

   

(2) Goods under:

(a) Part B of the Project; 1,600,700

   

   
 
 
     
     
      
     

  
 
  

(b) Part C of the Project. 2,713,100

(3) Consultants’ services and
Training and Workshops
under:

538,900

   

(a) Part B of the Project;

(b) Part C of the Project; 254,900.

      

 

   

    
    
      

     
       
  
  

 
 

(c) Part D of the Project. 1,832,100
(4) Front-end Fee 150,000 Amount payable pursuant to
Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance with
Section 2.07 (b) of the General
Conditions

Amount due pursuant to
Section 2.07(c) of this
Agreement

(5) Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar premium

TOTAL AMOUNT

B. Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

000

  

60,000,

1. Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made:

(a) for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $6,000,000 equivalent may be made for
payments made prior to this date but on or after January 6, 2014 for Eligible
Expenditures;

-14-

mee ne re tae
(b) for payments under Categories (1)(a), (2)(a) and 3(a) until the Bank shall have
notifted the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity of its receipt of a copy
of the Subsidiary Agreement — XSAIOC, satisfactory to the Bank and in
accordance with the provisions of Annex A to the Schedule to the Project
Agreement; and

(c) for payments under Categories (1)(b), (2)(b) and (3)(b) until the Bank shall have
notified the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity of its receipt of a copy.

of the Subsidiary Agreement — FOTS, satisfactory to the Bank and in accordance
with the provisions of Annex B of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.

2. The Closing Date is December 31, 2020.

-15-
 

On each April 15 and October 15

SCHEDULE 3

Amortization Schedule

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment
Date (“Installment Share”). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the

Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by

multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b)
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule,
to which a Currency Conversion applies.

Principal Payment Date

 
  
 

Beginning October 15, 2021
through April 15, 2041

If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:

(a) To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance
as of such date in accordance with paragraph | of this Schedule.

(b) Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph | of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original
Installment Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion

applies.

(a) Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of

-16-

Installment Share |
xpressed as a Percentage

 
 
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.

~ (b) Notwithstanding thé provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such ‘sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of
such billing system.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs | and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.

If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the

provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.

-17-
APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

l.

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines ‘on Preventing and Combating
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”,
dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement. |

“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers”
dated January 2011.

“Displaced Persons” means persons who, on account of the execution of the Project, have
experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts caused by: (a) the
involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (4) relocation or loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets
or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources or means of livelihood, whether or not
such persons must move to another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to
legally designated parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the
livelihood of such persons; and a “Displaced Person” means any of such Displaced
Persons.

“Environmental Management Plan” or the acronym “EMP” means the Environmental
Management Plan dated October 2013, adopted by the Project Implementing Entity,
which plan sets out the environmental protection measures, including measures for the
protection of natural habitats and physical cultural resources, in respect of the Project, as
well as administrative and monitoring arrangements to ensure the implementation of said
plan, as said plan may be revised from time to time with the prior written agreement of
the Bank, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental thereto.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated March 12, 2012.

“FOTS” means Fujian Provincial Ocean Technical School, an associated institute of
Fujian Provincial Department of Ocean and Fisheries, founded in May 1979, with the
main purpose of providing vocational education, technical training and skills

certification.

“Fujian Province” means the Borrower’s province of Fujian or any successor thereto.
“Fujian Provincial Project Management Office” or “Fujian PPMO” means the provincial

project management office established by Fujian Province in February 1998, under the
overall direction of the Fujian Provincial Department of Ocean and Fisheries, responsible

-18-
10.

Il.

15.

16.

17.

for the day-to-day implementation and supervision of the Project, and referred to in
Section I.A.1(b) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.

“Fujian Project Leading Group” or “Fujian PLG” means the project leading group,
chaired by the Vice-Governor of Fujian Province, established by Fujian Province on
October 8, 1997 to provide leadership, coordination and supervision on the preparation
and implementation of the Project, and referred to in Section I.A.1(a) of the Schedule to

the Project Agreement.

“Port Operational and Maintenance Manual” means the manual to be prepared under Part
D.1(c) of the Project by Xia’pu County and XSAIOC, satisfactory to the Bank, providing
for the adequate operation and maintenance of ports benefitted under the Project, and
referred to in Section 1.D.1 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.

“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and
Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers” dated January 2011.

“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, dated
September 30, 2013 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and
paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to
time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.

“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and the Project
Implementing Entity of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to
time; and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project

Agreement.

“Project Implementing Entity” means Fujian Province, or any successor thereto.
J p g on i y

“Resettlement Action Plan” or the acronym “RAP” means: (a) the plan, adopted by the
Project Implementing Entity, dated September 30, 2013, for purposes of carrying out the
Project; and (b) any additional or supplemental RAPs that may be prepared under the
Project under the terms and conditions of the RPF, which plans sets out or shall set out,
inter alia: (i) the principles and procedures governing the acquisition of land required for
the Project and related facilities; (ii) actions and measures for the payment of
compensation to Displaced Persons and for their resettlement and rehabilitation; (iii) the
criteria and procedures for developing and implementing actions and . measures,
satisfactory to the Bank, for mitigating the adverse social impacts resulting from the

implementation of activities in locations that are not directly identified in the RAP; and

(iv) reporting and monitoring arrangements to ensure compliance with said plan, as the
same may be revised from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank; and
such term includes all attachments and annexes supplemental to said plan.

“Resettlement Policy Framework” or the acronym “RPF” means the policy framework,
dated September 30, 2013, adopted by the Project Implementing Entity, which sets out

-19-
18.

19.

20.

21.

22.

23.

24.

the policies and procedures for resettlement, compensation and rehabilitation of
Displaced Persons, and for the preparation of resettlement action plans during the
implementation of the Project, as said policy framework may be revised from time to
time with the prior written agreement of the Bank; and such term includes all attachments
and annexes supplemental to said framework.

“Results Framework” means the Project Implementing Entity’s framework, dated April
15, 2014 and agreed with the Bank, setting forth the indicators and targets for purposes of
monitoring and evaluation of the progress of the Project, as the same may be modified
from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank, and such term includes
any annexes, appendices, or schedules to such framework.

“Safeguards Instruments” means, collectively, the EMP, the RAP (and any additional or
supplemental RAPs that may be prepared under the Project), and the RPF, and such term
includes any annexes or schedules to such instruments.

“Subsidiary Agreement - FOTS” means the agreement referred to in Section I.A.3 of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement to be entered into between the Project Implementing
Entity and FOTS, pursuant to the terms and conditions of Annex B to the Schedule to the
Project Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term
‘ncludes all schedules and supplements to said agreement.

“Subsidiary Agreement - XSAIOC” means the agreement referred to in Section 1.A.2 of
the Schedule to the Project Agreement, to be entered into between the Project
Implementing Entity, through Xia’pu County, and XSAIOC, pursuant to the terms and
conditions of Annex A to the Schedule to the Project Agreement, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and supplements to said

agreement.

“Training and Workshops” means the costs of training activities under the Project, based
on annual work plans and budgets approved by the Bank, and attributable to seminars,
workshops, and domestic and overseas study trips, along with travel and subsistence
allowances for training participants, services of trainers, rental of training facilities,
preparation and reproduction of training materials, and other activities directly related to
course preparation and implementation.

“Xia’pu County” means the Borrower’s county of such name located in Ningde
Municipality in Fujian Province, and any successor thereto.

“Xia’pu Project Management Office” or “Xia’pu PMO” means the project management
office established by Xia’ pu County on March 31, 2012, under the overall direction of the
Fujian PPMO and responsible for the day-to-day implementation of Parts A and B of the
Project in Xia’pu County, and referred to in Section I.A.1(c) of the Schedule to the

Project Agreement.

_20 -

se A err
25.

“XSAIOC” means Xia’pu State Owned Assets Investment Company Co., Ltd., a state-
owned limited liability company established and operating pursuant to its charter dated
June 13, 1997, and to Business License No. 350921100005323 dated October 4, 2012,
issued by Xia’pu County Industry and Commerce Administrative Bureau, and any
successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.

~21i-
