Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

 

LOAN NUMBER 8421-PH

Loan Agreement

Philippine Rural Development Project
between —
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated Bey lepbry § ,2014

 

 
 

LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT dated Avy Tomb 6 , 2014, between the

REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES (“Borrower”) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).

WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and
priority of the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”), has
requested the Bank to extend a loan in the amount of five hundred one million two
hundred and fifty thousand United States Dollars ($501,250,000) as provided in Section
2.01 of this Agreement, to assist in financing Part 1.1(a) and 1.2, Part 2, Part 3.1(a) and
3.2 and Part 4 of the Project (“Loan Agreement”); and

(B) the Borrower has also requested the Bank, acting as an implementing entity
of the Global Environment Facility (“GEF”) to assist in financing Part 1.1(b) and Part
3.1(b) and 3.2 of the Project and the Bank, acting in such capacity, has agreed to extend a
grant to the Borrower from the GEF for such purpose in the amount of seven million
United States Dollars ($7,000,000), pursuant to the grant agreement of even date
herewith between the Borrower and the Bank (“GEF Grant Agreement”), and

WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to
extend a loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;

NOW THEREFORE, the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01. The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

1.02. Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.

ARTICLE If — LOAN

2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of five hundred and one million two
hundred and fifty thousand United States Dollars ($501,250,000), as such amount
may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to
assist in financing the project described in Schedule | to this Agreement
(“Project”).
2.02.

2.03.

2.04.

2.05.

2.06.

2.07.

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.

The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article [IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.

The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

(a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.

(b) Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
3.01.

3.02.

4.01.

4.02.

provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.

(c) Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE Hil — PROJECT

The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through its Department of
Agriculture in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions.

Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following: the GEF
Grant Agreement has been executed and delivered and all conditions precedent to
its effectiveness or to the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals under it

(other than the effectiveness of this Agreement) have been fulfilled.

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.

ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
The Borrower’s Representative is its Secretary of Finance.

The Borrower’s Address ts:
Department of Finance
Department of Finance Building
Bangko Sentral Complex

Roxas Blvd.

Manila, Philippines

Facsimile:

(63-2) 523-9216

5.03. The Bank’s Address ts:

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America

Cable address: Telex: Facsimile:

INTBAFRAD 248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 64145(MCI)
 

AGREED at Manila, Republic of the Philippines, as of the day and year first

above written.

REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES

By

oe Representative

Name: CESAR y. PuRISiM A
Title: SECRETARY

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By

£

: : Authorized Representative

Name: MOTOO KONICH] _
Title: COUNTRY DIRE<TOR
SCHEDULE 1

Project Description

The objectives of the Project are to increase rural incomes and enhance farm and
fishery productivity in the Targeted Areas.

The Project consists of the following parts:

Part 1. Local and National Level Planning

1.1 Enhancing the Agriculture and Fisheries Modernization Planning Process.
(a) Rationalization of the DA’s planning, programming and budgeting processes related

to the development of AFMPs as the main basis of decision making and operations in the
DA at the national, regional and local levels; and (b) Support for natural resource
planning, management and resource utilization in selected marine protected areas.

1.2 Supporting AFMP Implementation. Design of coordinated systems of technical
support for the implementation of Sub-projects prioritized in the provincial commodity
investment plans (PCIPs).

Part 2. Infrastructure Development

2.1 Value Chain Infrastructure Support. Carrying out of specific Sub-projects to
support infrastructure development by Participating LGUs in priority commodity value
chains (including, among others, farm-to-market roads, bridges, tire tracks, communal
irrigation, potable water systems, post-harvest facilities, production facilities, fish
landings, fish sanctuaries, tram lines, storage facilities, trading posts, green houses, solar
driers, watch towers, and slope stabilization works).

2.2 Approaches for Improving the Effectiveness and Sustainability of Infrastructure

Investments. Development of technical specifications for climate resiliency and disaster
risk mitigation for local infrastructure.

Part 3. Enterprise Development

3.1 Rural Agri-Fishery Enterprise and Productivity Enhancement. (a) Carrying out of

specific Sub-projects to support vertical and horizontal clustering, joint business planning
and investments by producer groups/enterprises operating within priority commodity
value chains; and (b) Promotion of biodiversity conservation and coastal resource co-
management arrangements, as well as carrying out sustainable income-generating
livelihood activities.
3.2 Technology and Information for Enterprise and Market Development. Provision
of technical assistance to producers to increase their productivity and incomes through
improved and sustainable technological, operational and market knowledge and
facilitation of market linkages.

Part 4. Project Implementation Support

Provision of technical and operational assistance for the day-to-day coordination,
implementation, monitoring, evaluation and audit of the Project.
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution

Implementation Arrangements

Institutional and Implementation Arrangements

Section I.

A.

l. (a)
(b)
(c)
(d)

2.

The Borrower shall carry out the Project, through the DA, in accordance
with the Operations Manuals, the AFMP and the RAFMPs.

In the case of the operations manuals prepared and adopted for Parts 2.1
and 3.1 of the Project, such operations manuals shall include, inter alia,
the descriptions of: (i) eligibility criteria, procedures and guidelines for
the selection, approval, administration and supervision of Sub-projects
including those set out in Section IC and Attachment | to this Schedule
2; (ii) the conditions governing Infrastructure Development Grants and
Enterprise Development Grants, respectively; (iii) a list of items or
activities not eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan
through Sub-projects and (iv) the Sub-project’s engineering design,
operating and maintenance procedures.

The Borrower shall not amend, revise, waive, void, suspend or abrogate,
or allow to be amended, revised, waived, voided, suspended or
abrogated, any provision of the Operations Manuals, without the prior
written concurrence of the Bank.

In case of any inconsistency between the provisions of the Operations
Manuals and those of this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement
shall prevail.

The Borrower shall maintain throughout the period of implementation of the
Project, with composition, terms of reference, staffing and other resources
acceptable to the Bank, and with detailed functions and powers as set out in the
Operations Manuals:

(a)

(b)

an NPCO, to be responsible, inter alia, for implementation of the overall
institutional reforms planned for the DA under the Project and
coordination of the relevant government agencies involved in the
implementation of the Project; and

an NPAB, to be responsible, inter alia, for overall direction and
oversight of Project implementation; and
(c) RPABs, each chaired by the regional director of DA, to be responsible,
inter alia, for the oversight of Project implementation at the regional
level; and

(d) RPCOs within the respective DA regional field offices to be responsible,
inter alia, for coordination and management of Project implementation at
the regional level; and

(e) PSOs to be responsible, inter alia, for providing support to the RPCOs.

The Borrower shall, by December 31, 2014, establish baseline data for the
Project according to the terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.

The Borrower shall, through the NPCO: (i) furnish to the Bank, not later than
October 31 in each year, starting October 31, 2014, for review and comments, an
annual work plan and financing plan for the implementation of the Project in the
following year prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Operations
Manuals; and (ii) afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views
with the Borrower on said plan and, thereafter, promptly take all actions
necessary to implement said plan, taking into account the views of the Bank on
the matter.

The Borrower shall, by January 31, 2018, update the AFMP taking into account
the Planning, Programming and Budgeting Guidelines to be developed under Part
1.1 of the Project.

The Borrower shall, by January 31, 2018, update a common set of harmonized
criteria, governing inter alia, the selection, implementation, technical design
standards, financial and economic analysis, operations and maintenance,
safeguard policies, monitoring and evaluation as used for Parts 2.1 and 3.1 of the
Project, for other infrastructure and enterprise development subprojects
supported by the DA.

The Borrower shall: (a) maintain, throughout the course of implementation, a
unified and integrated platform of publicly accessible, geo-tagged and geo-
mapped records of all Sub-projects; and (b) by January 31, 2018, maintain the
aforesaid described platform of records for similar subprojects managed and
supported by the DA.

The Borrower shall, from calendar year 2016, and henceforth, develop and
implement planning guidelines that require all technical and attached agencies of
the DA to coordinate with and provide support to RFOs in implementation of the
relevant PCIP and to make appropriate provisions in their annual budgets for the
same.
-10-

The Borrower shall, by December 31, 2014, establish the NPAB, with
composition, terms of reference, staffing and other resources acceptable to the
Bank.

Safeguards

The Borrower shall and shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance
with the requirements and procedures of the ESSF, and shall not assign, amend,
abrogate or waive any provisions of the ESSF without prior approval of the
Bank.

Sub-projects

To facilitate the carrying out and financing of Parts 2.1 and 3.1 of the Project, the
Borrower shall make part of the proceeds of the Loan available to Participating
LGUs on a grant basis (“Grant”) for the purpose of making Infrastructure
Development Grants or Enterprise Development Grants, respectively.

Prior to making an Infrastructure Development Grant or an_ Enterprise
Development Grant to a Participating LGU, the Borrower shall:

(a) ensure that each Participating LGU has the organization, management
and resources satisfactory to the Bank for carrying out the proposed Sub-
projects; and

(b) enter into a grant agreement between the Borrower, through its DA, and
each Participating LGU (“Implementation Management Agreement”),
under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, as set out in
Attachment 1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and which shall also
include the following: (i) the implementation responsibilities of the DA
and the Participating LGU in the implementation of the Sub-projects;
(ii) the specification of eligible expenditures that may be financed from
the proceeds of the Grant; (iii) financial management and audit
procedures consistent with those provisions set out in the Operations
Manuals; (iv) procurement procedures consistent with Section III of this
Schedule; (v) monitoring and reporting arrangements; and
(vi) arrangements for implementation of the ESSF.

Without limitation on the provisions of paragraph 2(b) of this Section, including
the terms and conditions set out in Attachment | of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, the Borrower, through its DA, shall obtain rights under each
Implementation Management Agreement adequate to protect its interests and
those of the Bank, including the right to: (i) suspend or terminate the right of the
-ll-

Participating LGU to use the proceeds of the Grant, or obtain a refund of all or
any part of the amount of the Grant then withdrawn, upon the Participating
LGU’s failure to perform any of its obligations under the Implementation
Management Agreement; and (ii) require each Participating LGU to: (A) carry
out its Sub-project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with
sound technical, economic, financial, managerial, environmental and social
standards and practices satisfactory to the Bank, including in accordance with the
ESSF and the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to
recipients of loan proceeds other than the Borrower; (B) provide, promptly as
needed, the resources required for the purpose; (C) procure the goods, works and
services to be financed out of the Grant in accordance with the provisions of this
Agreement; (D) maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the
progress of the Sub-project and the achievement of its objectives; (E) (1)
maintain a financial management system and prepare financial reports in a format
acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank, both in a manner adequate to reflect the
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Sub-project; and (2) at the
Bank’s or the Borrower’s request, have such financial reports audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with consistently
applied auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, and promptly furnish the
statements as so audited to the Borrower and the Bank; (F) enable the Bank to
inspect the Sub-project, its operation and any relevant records and documents;
and (G) prepare and furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request relating to the foregoing.

4, The Borrower shall: (a) exercise its rights under each Implementation
Management Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan; and
(b) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive any Implementation Management Agreement or any provision thereof.

D. Anti-Corruption

The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.

Section II. Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. Project Reports

l. The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the Bank and specified in
the Operations Manuals. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one (1)
-12-

calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five
(45) days after the end of the period covered by such report.

Without limitation on the provisions in paragraph A.1 of this Section II above,
the Borrower shall:

(a) prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to
the Bank, on or about September 15, 2017, a mid-term evaluation report
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities
performed pursuant to paragraph | of this Part A, on the progress
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding
the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the
objectives thereof during the period following such date; and

(b) review with the Bank, by November 15, 2017, or such later date as the
Bank shall request, the report referred to in sub-paragraph (a) of this
paragraph 2, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report
and the Bank’s views on the matter.

Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits

The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.

Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
prepare and furnish to the Bank, not later than forty five (45) days after the end
of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project
covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.

The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower.
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the
Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
-13-

Section III. Procurement

General

Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.

Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.

Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in Sections I] and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, Il, IV and V of the Consultant
Guidelines, as the case may be.

Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services

International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works, and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding procedures.

Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding,
may be used for procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for
those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) National Competitive
Bidding subject to the additional provisions set out in paragraph 3 of this Section;
(b) Shopping; (c) Direct contracting; (d) Well-established Private Sector
Procurement Methods or Commercial Practices which have been found
acceptable to the Bank; and (e) Community Participation procedures in
accordance with the procedures included in the Operations Manuals, which have
been found acceptable to the Bank.

Additional National Competitive Bidding Provisions. The following
provisions shall apply to the procurement of goods, works and non-consulting
services under National Competitive Bidding procedures: (a) eligibility screening
shall not be applied, provided however that bids that do not contain any of the
_14-

following documents shall not pass the documentary compliance check:
(i) evidence of the required financial, technical or production capability;
(ii) audited financial statements; (iii) credit line or cash deposit certificate; (iv)
bid security; and (v) authority of the bid signatory; (b) a ceiling may be applied
to bid prices provided the following conditions are met: (i) bidding documents
are obtainable free of charge on a freely accessible website; (ii) the agency has
procedures in place to ensure that the ABC is based on Engineer’s Estimate;
(iii) the agency has trained cost estimators on estimating prices and analyzing bid
variance; and (iv) the agency has established a system to monitor and report bid
prices relative to ABC and Engineer’s Estimate; (c) domestic or regional
preferences shall not be applied in the evaluation of bids, and other preference in
effect in the Philippines shall not be used except with prior concurrence of the
Bank; (d) foreign suppliers and contractors shall be allowed to participate, if
interested, without first being required to associate with, or enter into joint
venture, with local firms, and foreign bidders shall be allowed to bid, even
without registration, licensing, and other government authorizations, leaving
these requirements for after award and before signing of contract; and
(e) alternative procurement methods defined in the implementing rules and
regulations such as Limited Source Bidding, Direct Contracting and Shopping as
acceptable, and the use of the other alternative methods shall require prior Bank
concurrence.

Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services

Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.

Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following
methods, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants’ services for those contracts which are specified in
the Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based Selection; (b) Selection under a Fixed
Budget; (c) Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications; (d) Single-source
Selection of consulting firms; (e) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3
of the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants; and
(f) Single-source procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants.

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the

Bank’s Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.
_15-

Section IV. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. General

l. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.

2. The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.

Percentage of Expenditures to

Amount of the Loan be financed
Allocated (inclusive of Taxes)
Category (expressed in USD)

 

(1) Goods, non-consulting
services, consultants’
services, Training and
Operating Costs for Parts
1.1(a), 1.2, 2.2, 3.2 and 4 of
the Project
(2) Infrastructure
Development Grants under
Part 2.1 of the Project
(3) Enterprise Development
Grants under Part 3.1(a) of
the Project
(4) Front-end Fee

     
     
   
 
      
     
    
    
     
    

55,526,875 100% of the amount disbursed

354,470,000 100% of the amount disbursed
90,000,000 100% of the amount disbursed

1,253,125 Amount payable pursuant to
Section 2.03 of this Agreement
in accordance with Section 2.07
(b) of the General Conditions

Amount due pursuant to Section
2.07(c) of this Agreement

 
 

  

   
 
 

 
 

(5) Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar
premium

TOTAL AMOUNT 501,250,000

  
-16-

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$12,000,000 equivalent
may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after September 15,
2013, for Eligible Expenditures under Categories (1), (2) and (3).

The Closing Date is May 31, 2021.
-17-

ATTACHMENT 1 TO SCHEDULE 2

IMPLEMENTATION MANAGEMENT AGREEMENT

TERMS AND CONDITIONS

For the purposes of Section IC of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, each Implementation
Management Agreement between the Borrower and a Participating LGU shall include,
inter alia, the provisions set forth below.

l.

The Borrower shall provide a Participating LGU an amount equivalent to ninety
percent (90%) of the cost of said LGU’s Sub-project for Sub-projects under Part
2.1 of the Project, and eighty percent (80%) of the cost of said LGU’s Sub-
project for Sub-projects under Part 3.1 of the Project.

Each Participating LGU shall:

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

maintain, throughout the period of Project implementation, the
organization, management and resources, satisfactory to the Bank, for
carrying out Sub-projects; and

establish, prior to the carrying out of any Sub-projects, and thereafter
maintain, a PPMIU throughout the period of Project implementation,
with composition, terms of reference, staffing and other resources
acceptable to the Bank, to be responsible for supporting project
implementation activities, preparing annual work plans and budgets,
undertaking monitoring and evaluation and overall accounting and
financial management;

carry out the Sub-projects with due diligence and efficiency, in
conformity with appropriate engineering, economic, financial,
administrative, technical, and agricultural practices and sound social and
environmental standards, as set forth in the Operations Manuals prepared
and adopted for the Project, and acceptable to the Bank, as well as in
accordance with the applicable PCIP, and provide promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required therefor; and

submit for prior technical review by the World Bank (1) the first Sub-
project proposed for approval in each PSO under Part 3.1 of the Project,
and (ii) all Sub-projects proposed for approval under Part 3.1 of the
Project that have grant amounts valued at or above 15 million Philippine
Pesos.
3.

-18-

The Participating LGU shall:

(a)

(b)

(d)

(i) carry out an environmental screening for the proposed Sub-project in
accordance with the provisions of the ESSF (including the EMFG),
(ii) prior to the commencement of any works, prepare, hold consultations
on and disclose an ESMP, satisfactory to the Bank; (iii) carry out the
Sub-project in accordance with the ESMP; (iv) not amend, suspend or
abrogate any of the provisions of the ESMP without the prior approval of
the Bank; and (iv) in the event an environment compliance certificate is
required under Philippine !aw or regulations, such certificate has been
obtained from DENR or its instrumentality at the regional level in
respect of the activities under said Sub-project; and

if the activities under the proposed Sub-project give rise to Displaced
Persons: (i) prepare, hold consultations on and disclose, prior to the
commencement of any works, a Resettlement Action Plan (“RAP”), in
accordance with the provisions of the ESSF (including the LARRF),
(ii) carry out the Sub-project in accordance with the RAP including,
unless otherwise agreed with the Bank, payment in full of compensation
to all Displaced Persons prior to the commencement of any related
works; (iv) not amend, suspend or abrogate any of the provisions of the
RAP without the prior approval of the Bank; and

if the activities under such proposed Sub-project involve Indigenous
Peoples, and if required according to said ESSF (including the [PPF):
(i) prepare, hold consultations on and disclose, prior to the
commencement of any works, an Indigenous Peoples Plan (“IPP”), in
accordance with the provisions of the ESSF (including the IPPF);
(ii) carry out the Sub-project in accordance with the IPP; (iv) not amend,
suspend or abrogate any of the provisions of the IPP without the prior
approval of the Bank; and

(i) not finance any Sub-project that involves a dam that is fifteen (15)
meters or more in height; and (ii) not finance any Sub-project that
involves a dam that is between ten (10) and fifteen (15) meters in height,
without the prior written approval of the Bank.

Each Participating LGU shall:

(a)

procure goods, works and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
-19-

(b) ensure that said goods are insured against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a currency
freely usable by the purchaser thereof to replace or repair such goods;
and

(c) ensure that said goods, works and services are utilized exclusively for the
purpose of carrying out the Project.

Each Participating LGU shall enable the Borrower and the Bank to examine all
goods, facilities, sites and works included in the Project, the operation thereof,
and any relevant records and documents.

Each Participating LGU shall ensure that any facilities, equipment and other
property relevant to the Project shall at all times be operated and maintained, and
that all necessary repairs and renewals thereof shall be promptly made, as
needed, all in accordance with sound financial, administrative and technical
practices.

Each Participating LGU shall:

(a) maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the performance
indicators referred to in Section II.A.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
the carrying out of the Sub-projects; and

(b) prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, a semi-annual
report summarizing the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities
performed pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) above of this paragraph 6, on
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Sub-projects during the
preceding calendar semester and setting out the measures recommended
to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of
the objectives thereof during the next semi-annual period following such
date and furnish the same to the Borrower to enable the Borrower to
consolidate and submit the information to the Bank pursuant to the
provisions in Section II.A.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

Each Participating LGU shall maintain a financial management system and
prepare financial reports in a format acceptable to the Bank and the Borrower,
both in a manner adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures
related to each Sub-project.

Each Participating LGU shall have the financial reports for each Sub-project
referred to above audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in
-20 -

accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Bank.
Each audit of these financial reports shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year
of the Participating LGU. The audited financial reports for each period shal] be
furnished to the Borrower not later than three (3) months after the end of the
period for consolidation by the Borrower and submission to the Bank in
accordance with the provisions of Section IJ.B.3 of Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement.
_2] -

SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule

l. The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date (“Installment Share”). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.

  
   
 
    
 
    

 
   

Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)

  

Principal Payment Date

On each April 15 and October 15
Beginning April 15, 2020
through October 15, 2043

On April 15, 2044

2. If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:

 
 

   

 

2.04%

(a) To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph |
of this Schedule.

(b) Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph | of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”)
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
-22-

(a) Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.

(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs | and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.

If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.
23 -

APPENDIX

Definitions

1.

“AFMP” means the agriculture and fisheries modernization plan which is
prepared and implemented by the DA under Republic Act 8435 of 1997 in.
consultation with stakeholders and which includes plans on food security,
poverty alleviation and social equity, income enhancement and profitability,
global competitiveness, and sustainability.

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.

“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers” dated January 2011.

“DA” or “Department of Agriculture” means the Borrower’s Department of
Agriculture, and any successor or successors thereto.

“DENR” or “Department of Environment and Natural Resources” means the
Borrower’s Department of Environment and Natural Resources, and any
successor or successors thereto.

“Displaced Person” means a person who, on account of the execution of the
Project, has experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts
caused by: (i) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in (A) relocation or loss of
shelter (B) loss of assets or access to assets or (C) loss of income sources or
means of livelihood, whether or not such person must move to another location;
or (ii) the involuntary restriction to access to legally designated parks and
protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such person,
and “Displaced Persons” means more than one such Displaced Person.

“Enterprise Development Grant” is a grant made by the Borrower to a
Participating LGU under an Implementation Management Agreement for the
purpose of carrying out Sub-projects under Part 3.1 of the Project; and
“Enterprise Development Grants” means more than one such Enterprise
Development Grant.
10.

11.

_94-

“EMFG” means the Borrower’s environmental management framework and
guidelines, prepared by the Borrower and included in the ESSF, as acceptable to
the Bank, setting out the mitigating, monitoring and institutional measures to be
taken during the implementation and operation of the Project to offset or reduce
potential adverse environmental impacts to levels acceptable to the Bank.

“ESMP” means a site-specific environmental and social management plan, as
provided for under the ESSF (including the EMFG), to be prepared by the
Borrower, and satisfactory to the World Bank, defining details of measures to
manage potential environmental and social risks and mitigate, reduce and/or
offset adverse environmental and social impacts associated with the
implementation of activities under the Project, together with adequate
institutional, monitoring and reporting arrangements capable of ensuring proper
implementation of, and regular feedback on compliance with, its terms, as the
same may be amended and supplemented from time to time with the prior
agreement of the Bank; and “ESMPs” refers to more than one such ESMP.

“ESSF” means the environmental and social safeguards framework, for the
Project, dated November 28, 2012, updated June 5, 2014, disclosed in Infoshop
on June 6, 2014, which includes the EMFG, the IPPF, and the LARRF, and
which: (i) sets forth policies and procedures for the preparation of site-specific
ESMPs, IPPs and RAPs; and (ii) sets forth the mitigating, monitoring and
institutional measures to be taken during the implementation and operation of the
Project to offset or reduce potential adverse environmental and social impacts to
levels acceptable to the Bank.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated March 12, 2012.

“Implementation Management Agreement” means an agreement between the
Borrower, through its DA, and a Participating LGU for the purpose of carrying
out Sub-projects under Parts 2.1 and 3.1 of the Project.

“Indigenous Peoples” means social groups with a distinct social and cultural
identity that makes them vulnerable to being disadvantaged in the development
process, including the presence in varying degrees of the following
characteristics: (i) a close attachment to ancestral territories and to the natural
resources in these areas; (ii) self-identification and identification by others as
members of a distinct cultural group; (iii) an indigenous language, often different
from Pilipino, the Recipient’s national language; (iv) presence of customary
social and political institutions; and (v) primarily subsistence-oriented
production.
16.

17.

20.

-25-

“Indigenous Peoples Plan” or “IPP” means an indigenous peoples plan to be
prepared by the Participating LGU in accordance with the IPPF and the Bank’s
policy on indigenous peoples, pursuant to paragraph 3(c) of Attachment | to
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, setting forth, inter alia, a summary of the social
assessment undertaken to determine whether Indigenous People are present in or
have collective attachment to the Project area, a summary of the results of the
free, prior, and informed consultation with the affected Indigenous Peoples’
communities, a framework for ensuring free, prior, and informed consultation
with the affected Indigenous Peoples’ communities, an action plan of measures to
avoid, minimize, mitigate, or compensate for adverse effects on affected
Indigenous People, cost estimates and financing, grievance mechanisms and
mechanisms and benchmarks appropriate to the Project for monitoring,
evaluating, and reporting on the implementation of the IPPF; and “IPPs” means
more than one such IPP.

“Indigenous Peoples Policy Framework” or “IPPF” means the framework
included in the ESSF, prepared by the Borrower, which sets out: (i) the policies
and procedures to ensure adequate consultations with, and the informed
participation of, Indigenous Peoples who are affected by the Project, and (11) the
principles to be applied in the preparation of IPPs as may be required during
implementation of the Project.

“Infrastructure Development Grant” is a grant made by the Borrower to a
Participating LGU under an Implementation Management Agreement for the
purpose of carrying out Sub-projects under Part 2.1 of the Project; and
“Infrastructure Development Grants” means more than one such Infrastructure
Development Grant.

“Land Acquisition, Resettlement, and Rehabilitation Policy Framework” or
“TARRF” means the framework prepared by the Borrower and included in the
ESSF, which sets out the procedures, rules, and guidelines for: (i) the involuntary
taking of land and other assets from Displaced Persons; (ii) resettlement and
rehabilitation of, and compensation to, Displaced Persons; and (ili) reporting and
monitoring arrangements to ensure compliance with such framework, as such
framework may be amended from time to time with the prior agreement of the
Bank.

“NPAB” means the National Program Advisory Board, to be established in
accordance with Section I. A 9 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“NPCO” means the National Program Coordination Office, established by the
Secretary of Agriculture through Special Order No.756 of 2012, issued
November 20, 2013 and reconstituted through Special Order 776 of 2013, issued
21.

22.

23.

24.

25.

26.

27.

26 -

December 2, 2013 and referred to in Section I. A 2(a) of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.

“Operating Costs” means the reasonable incremental costs incurred by the
Borrower’s NPCO, PSO and the Regional PCOs on account of the Project
implementation, monitoring and evaluation, which expenditures would not have
been incurred absent the project, including costs for office supplies, bank
charges, advertising costs, repairs of equipment and vehicles, staff travel; rental
of office space, fuel costs, and costs of contractual staff and remuneration of staff
seconded, detailed and assigned to the NPCO, PSOs and the Regional PCOs for
Project support and coordination, but excluding the salaries of the Borrower’s
civil servants.

“Operations Manuals” means, collectively, the manuals prepared and adopted by
the Borrower for each of Part of the Project, as well as the manuals prepared and
adopted by the Borrower for management and administration of the Project,
procurement, financial management, monitoring and evaluation, social and
environmental safeguards and communication strategy, each dated May 26, 2014,
and referred to in Section I. Al of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as such manuals
may be revised from time to time with the prior approval of the Bank.

“Participating LGU” means a local government unit, which is a_ political
subdivision of the Borrower, selected in accordance with the eligibility criteria
set out in the Operations Manuals to participate in Project, and with which the
Borrower enters into an Implementation Management Agreement for the carrying
out of Sub-projects under Parts 2.1 and 3.1 of the Project; and “Participating
LGUs” means more than one such Participating LGU.

“PCIP” means a provincial commodity investment plan to be developed and
agreed among the DA, Participating LGUs, and relevant stakeholders, for the
purpose of planning provincial commodity investments under the Project; and
PCIPs means more than one such PCIP.

“Philippine Peso” means the lawful currency of the Borrower.

“Planning, Programming and Budgeting Guidelines” means the guidelines to be
developed by the Borrower under Part 1.1 of the Project, satisfactory to the Bank,
setting out the procedures and guidelines for preparing the annual plan and
budget of the DA.

“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers” dated January 2011.
28.

29.

30.

31.

32.

33.

34.

35.

36.

27.

“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project,
dated June 25, 2014, and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.

“PPMIU” means the provincial project, management, and implementation unit
referred to in paragraph 2(b) of Attachment | to Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“PSO” means a program support office, referred to in Section I. A 2(e) of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and “PSOs” means more than one such PSO.

“RAFMP” means the regional agriculture and fisheries modernization plan,
developed and implemented by the DA as a regional component of the AFMP
and prepared in consultation with stakeholders; and “RAFMPs” means more than
one such RAFMP.

“RAP” means the site-specific resettlement action plan and/or land acquisition
plan, to be prepared and adopted by the Participating LGU, pursuant to paragraph
3(b) of Attachment 1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, acceptable to the Bank,
containing, inter alia, a program of actions, measures and policies for
compensation of persons affected by land acquisition, including budget and cost
estimates, and sources of funding, together with adequate institutional, monitoring
and reporting arrangements capable of ensuring proper implementation of, and
regular feedback on compliance with its terms for each site; and “RAPs” means
more than one such RAP.

“RFO” means a regional field office, responsible for responsible, inter alia, for
preparing RAFMPs, and for providing technical validation of priority regional
commodity value chains and programs under the PCIP. “RFOs” means more than
one such RFO.

“RPAB” means a regional program advisory board, referred to in Section I. A
2(c) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and “RPABs” means more than one such
RPAB.

“RPCO” means a regional program coordination office referred to in Section IA
2(d) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and “RPCOs” means more than one such
RPCO.

“Sub-projects” means collectively, infrastructure developments or enterprise
developments carried out under Parts 2.1 and 3.1 of the Project, respectively, and
the term “Sub-project” means any of the Sub-projects.
37.

38.

- 28 -

“Targeted Areas” are those areas where the Project will be carried out, based on
the processes and procedures set out in the Operations Manuals.

“Training” means the reasonable costs of goods and services required for the
participation of personnel involved in training activities, workshops or study
tours under the Project, including travel and subsistence costs for training,
workshop and study tour participants, costs associated with securing the services
of trainers, rental of training and workshop facilities, preparation and
reproduction of training and workshop materials, and other costs directly related
to training course, workshop or study tour preparation and implementation, but
excluding salaries of consultants.
