Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

7 CO ee Neesmmit SAR:

| OFFICIAL '
| DOCUMENTS .

 

 

 

LOAN NUMBER 8409-TR

Loan Agreement

(Innovative Access to Finance Project)
between
TURKIYE SINAI KALKINMA BANKASI A.S.
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated August 22 ,2014
LOAN NUMBER 8409-TR

LOAN AGREEMENT

Agreement dated ZAUGUSt 22 , 2014, between TURKIYE SINAI

KALKINMA BANKASI A:S. (“Borrower” or “TSKB”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”). The Borrower and the
Bank hereby agree as follows:

1.01.

1.02.

2.01.

2.02

2.03

2.04

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.

ARTICLE I — LOAN

The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement: (a) the amount of one hundred ninety million
Dollars ($190,000,000); and (b) the amount of forty four million one hundred
thousand Euro (EUR 44,100,000), as such amounts may be converted from time
to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of
Section 2.07 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project
described in Schedule | to this Agreement (“Project”).

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.

The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.
 

2.05

2.06

2.07.

3.01.

The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

(a)

(b)

(c)

The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(1) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or
(B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.

Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.

Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE II — PROJECT

The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions.

-2.
3.02. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower, the Guarantor and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and the Operational Manual.

ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:

(a) the Borrower shall have adopted the Operational Manual satisfactory to
the Bank; and

(b) at least one Subsidiary Financing Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank,
shall have been entered into between the Borrower and a PFI in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 5(b) of Section ILA of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

4.02. The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and twenty (120) days after
the date of this Agreement.

ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. The Borrower’s Representative is the Executive Vice President of the Borrower.
5.02. © The Borrower’s Address is:

Tirkiye Sinai Kalkinma Bankasi A.S.
Meclisi Mebusan Caddesi

No. 81

34427 Findikli,

Istanbul

Turkey

Facsimile:
(90-212) 334-5234

5.03. The Bank’s Address is:

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America

Cable address: Telex: Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 64145(MCI)

-3-
AGREEDat Antac / turkey , as of the day and year first above written.

TURKIYE SINAi KALKINMA
BANKASI A.S.

 
 
  
   
 
  

By

uthorized Representative

By
Authorized Representative

Name: Hhwek Osnn gle
Sera Execute VUice-

Title:
Vreadgorv mt

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

   

By
Authorized “Aart. Raine

Name: Go Ut _Ltavh arse. arser

Title: _¢ oun by pe Sn

-4.
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description

The objective of the Project is to improve access to longer term Islamic finance
and to factoring for small and medium enterprises and export oriented enterprises.

The Project consists of the following Part, namely:
The establishment and operation of a financing facility within TSKB for the

provision of financing (through Subsidiary Financing) to PFIs for said PFIs to provide
financing (through Sub-financing) to SMEs and EOEs to carry out Sub-projects.
SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Section I. Implementation Arrangements

Institutional and Other Arrangements

Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the
following to the satisfaction of the Bank, namely, maintain its Project
Implementation Unit until the completion of the Project, and ensure that it
functions at all times in a manner and with staffing and budgetary resources
necessary and appropriate for implementation of the Project.

The Borrower shall maintain the Operational Manual in form and content
satisfactory to the Bank, shall duly perform all its obligations under the
Operational Manual, and shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Operational Manual without obtaining the prior approval of the Bank.

The Borrower shall, throughout the implementation of the Project, comply with
the applicable prudential regulations of the Guarantor.

The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.

For the purposes of carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall:

(a) select Participation Banks and Factoring Companies as PFIs pursuant to
criteria set forth in paragraph | of Section I.B of this Schedule and the
Operational Manual; |

(b) (1) provide financing to the PFis in an amount equivalent to the
proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to Category (1)
set forth in Section IV.A of this Schedule under Subsidiary
Financing Agreements to be entered into between the Borrower
and each such PFI, and which Subsidiary Financing Agreements
shall have been approved by the Bank and shall include without
limitation, the terms and conditions set forth in Section I.B of
this Schedule, and provided that the PFI continues to satisfy the
eligibility criteria set forth in paragraph | in Section I.B. of this
Schedule;

(ii) (A) utilize Repayments (defined in — sub-
paragraph (ii) (B) below) from the first financing cycle
to provide additional Subsidiary Financing (“Reflows”)
to the same or other PFIs on the terms and conditions

-6-
(c)

(iil)

(iv)

set forth in Section I.B of this Schedule for at least one
additional financing cycle, which Reflows:

(1) shall be made within twelve (12) months of the
Repayments reaching a total equivalent to
$30,000,000;

(II) shall be in the amount of the Repayments not
required to meet the Borrower’s payment
obligations to the Bank under this Agreement;
and

(III) shall, in the aggregate, not be less than the
ageregate of the Subsidiary Financing provided
in the first financing cycle; and

(B) for this purpose, establish a separate account, in
accordance with policies and procedures satisfactory to the
Bank; deposit into said account each payment of interest or other
charges and repayment of principal under all Subsidiary
Financing Agreements (“Repayments”) promptly upon receipt
thereof; record the same; and accumulate the amounts required
to meet the Borrower’s payment obligations to the Bank under
Sections 2.04 and 2.06 of this Agreement;

take or cause to be taken all action necessary or appropriate on
its part to enable the PFIs to perform in accordance with the
provisions of their respective Subsidiary Financing Agreements,
all the obligations of the PFIs therein set forth, and not take or
permit to be taken any action that would prevent or interfere with
such performance; and

exercise the Borrower’s rights under the Subsidiary Financing
Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Bank and the Guarantor and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise give its prior
approval, not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any such
agreement or any provision thereof;

ensure, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, that: (i) the amount of
each Sub-financing to any single SME or EOE shall not exceed the
equivalent of $3,500,000; and (ii) the aggregate amount of outstanding
Sub-financing to any single SME or EOE from all PFIs shall not exceed
the equivalent of $6,000,000;
(d)

(e)

monitor the overall execution of the Project and the carrying out by the
PFIs of their obligations under their respective Subsidiary Financing
Agreements in accordance with policies and procedures satisfactory to
the Bank; and

ensure that at least fifteen percent (15%) of the Loan utilized for Sub-
financing to SMEs shall be made for Sub-projects financing investments
located in the Priority Regions, or for Sub-projects financing working
capital, the goods and services so financed are used in the Priority
Regions.

Terms and Conditions of the Borrower’s provision of Subsidiary Financing

to PFIs

The principal terms and conditions set forth in this Section I.B shall apply for the
purposes of paragraph 5 of Section I.A of this Schedule.

PFI Eligibility Criteria

l.

For the purposes of carrying out the Project, except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall select Participation Banks and Factoring Companies as
PFIs in accordance with the criteria and procedures set forth in the Operational
Manual, including that:

(a)

A Participation Bank may be selected as a PFI only if it is duly
established and operating in the territory of the Guarantor and in respect
of which the Borrower shall have determined, and the Bank shall have
agreed with the determination, that the Participation Bank:

(1) has total assets exceeding the equivalent of $1,000,000,000 on
average during the last two fiscal years of the Participation Bank
preceding the signing of its Subsidiary Financing Agreement;

(ii) is in compliance with applicable banking regulations and
prudential regulations of the Guarantor as: (A) confirmed in the
semiannual financial reports submitted by the Participation
Bank’s management; and (B) duly certified by the Participation
Bank’s auditors at the end of each fiscal year of the Participation
Bank provided that in the first year of the Subsidiary Financing,
if the auditor’s certification is not available, a management letter
confirming the Participation Bank’s compliance with applicable
banking regulations and prudential regulations of the Guarantor
will be accepted in lieu of the auditor’s certification;
(b)

(iii)

(iv)

(v)

is Operating pursuant to investment and financing policies and
procedures acceptable to the Bank, the Borrower and the
Guarantor and has undertaken to maintain said policies and
procedures;

has adequate organization, management, staff and other
resources necessary for its efficient operation; and

applies appropriate procedures for appraisal, supervision, and
monitoring of Sub-projects, including for the efficient evaluation
and supervision of the procurement and environmental elements
of Sub-projects.

A Factoring Company may be selected as a PFI only if it is duly
established and operating in the territory of the Guarantor, and in respect
of which the Borrower shall have determined, and the Bank shall have
agreed with the determination, that the Factoring Company:

(1)

(ii)

(iii)

(iv)

has total assets exceeding the equivalent of $450,000,000 on
average during the last two fiscal years of the Factoring
Company preceding the signing of its Subsidiary Financing
Agreement;

has total factoring receivables exceeding the equivalent of
$100,000,000 on average and a factoring volume exceeding the
equivalent of $100,000,000 on average, during the last two fiscal
years of the Factoring Company preceding the signing of its

Subsidiary Financing Agreement;

is in compliance with applicable factoring regulations of the
Guarantor as: (A) confirmed in the semiannual financial reports
submitted by the Factoring Company’s management; and
(B) duly certified by the Factoring Company’s auditors at the
end of each fiscal year of the Factoring Company provided that
in the first year of the Subsidiary Financing, if the auditor’s
certification is not available, a management letter confirming the
Factoring Company’s compliance with applicable banking
regulations and prudential regulations of the Guarantor will be
accepted in lieu of the auditor’s certification;

has been profitable for at least two (2) out of the last three (3)
years of its operations;

is Operating pursuant to investment and financing policies and
procedures acceptable to the Bank, the Borrower and the

-9.
Guarantor and has undertaken to maintain said policies and
procedures;

(v1) has adequate organization, management, staff and other
resources necessary for its efficient operation; and

(vii) applies appropriate procedures for appraisal, supervision, and
monitoring of Sub-projects, including for the efficient evaluation
and supervision of the procurement and environmental elements
of Sub-projects.

Terms of Subsidiary Financing to PFIs

2.

The principal amount to be provided, out of the proceeds of the Loan, to a PFI
under its respective Subsidiary Financing Agreement, shall be the equivalent of
the aggregate amount of the principal of all Sub-financing to be made out of the
proceeds of the Loan pursuant to the Subsidiary Financing Agreement providing
for such Subsidiary Financing;

(a)

(b)

be:

(a)

Each Subsidiary Financing shall be subject to interest, markup, charges
and/or fees applied to the principal amount thereof withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time and which interest, markup, charges and/or

fees, in the aggregate, shall not be less than the rate payable under

Section 2.04 of this Agreement plus: (i) any premium, charges and fees
payable under this Agreement; (ii) the administrative costs of the
Borrower; and (iii) a risk margin acceptable to the Bank (“Subsidiary
Finance Rate”).

The Subsidiary Financing to:

(1) a Participation Bank shall have a minimum maturity period of
four (4) years and shall be in an amount not exceeding the
equivalent of $50,000,000; and

(ii) a Factoring Company shall have a minimum maturity of two (2)
years and shall be in an amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$35,000,000.

The right of a PFI to use the proceeds of its respective Subsidiary Financing shall

suspended upon failure of such PFI to perform any of its obligations
under its respective Subsidiary Financing Agreement, or to continue to
satisfy the eligibility criteria set forth in paragraph 1(a) or 1(b) of Section
I.B of this Schedule, as the case may be; and

-10-
(b) terminated if such right shall have been suspended pursuant to sub-
paragraph (a) hereof for a continuous period of sixty (60) days.

Conditions of Subsidiary Financing to PFIs

5. Each Subsidiary Financing Agreement shall contain provisions pursuant to which
the PFI concerned undertakes to:

(a) Carry out activities under the Project and conduct its operations and
affairs in accordance with appropriate financial standards and practices,
including in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption
Guidelines applicable to recipients of Loan proceeds other than the
Borrower, with qualified management and staff in adequate numbers,
and in conformity with the investment and lending or factoring policies
and procedures referred to in the Operational Manual, and provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.

(b) (i) Provide, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, Sub-financing
to SMEs or EOEs on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Operational Manual, including, without limitation, the terms and
conditions set forth in Section I.C of this Schedule;

(ji) with respect to a Participation Bank PFI providing the Sub-
financing, ensure that the Sub-financing is made available
through Islamic finance instruments that satisfy the requirements
set forth in the Operational Manual;

(iii) | ensure that, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree: (A) the
amount of each Sub-financing provided to any single SME or
EOE shall not exceed the equivalent of $3,500,000; and (B) the
aggregate amount of outstanding Sub-financing provided to any
single SME or EOE from all PFIs shall not exceed the equivalent
of $6,000,000;

(iv) exercise its rights in relation to each such Sub-financing in such
a manner as to protect its interests and the interests of the
Borrower, the Guarantor and the Bank, comply with its
obligations under its respective Subsidiary Financing Agreement
and achieve the purposes of the Project;

(v) not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of its agreements

providing for Sub-financing, or any provision thereof, without
the prior approval of the Borrower;

-1]-
(c)

(vi)

(vil)

(vill)

(ix)

(ii)

select and appraise Sub-projects and supervise; monitor and
report on the carrying out by the SMEs and EOEs of Sub-
projects, all in accordance with the Operational Manual and
ensure that no Excluded Activities are included in any Sub-
project;

ensure that each Sub-project shall comply with environmental
review procedures set forth in the Operational Manual and
Environmental Assessment Framework. To that end, PFIs shall
require each SME or EOE applying for a Sub-financing to
furnish evidence satisfactory to the Bank, showing that the Sub-
project, in respect of which the application has been prepared, is
in accordance with such procedures;

ensure that for Sub-projects which require an Environmental
Management Plan, the SME or EOE concerned shall carry out
such plan in a timely manner, requiring such Environmental
Management Plan to be in compliance with the Operational
Manual and Environmental Assessment Framework, and shall
include adequate information on the carrying out of such
Environmental Management Plans in the progress reports
referred to in sub-paragraph (c) (ii) of this paragraph; and

ensure that: (A) goods, works, non-consulting services and
consultants’ services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of
Section III of this Schedule; and (B) such goods, works and
services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Sub-
project.

Exchange views with and furnish all such information to the
Bank or the Borrower, as may be reasonably requested by the
Bank and the Borrower, with regard to the progress of its
activities under the Project, the performance of its obligations
under its respective Subsidiary Financing Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Project;

prepare and submit to the Borrower, quarterly reports on Sub-
financing disbursements and repayments, and annual reports on
the progress made in achieving the objectives outlined in the
business plans submitted with the Sub-financing applications;
and

-|2-
(d)

(e)

(iii) | promptly inform the Bank and the Borrower of any condition
that interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of its
activities under its respective Subsidiary Financing Agreement.

(1) Maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance
with sound accounting practices, its operations and financial
condition; and

(i1) furnish to the Bank such information concerning said records
and accounts as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably

request.

Assumes the risk of each Sub-financing.

Terms and Conditions of PFIs’ provision of Sub-financing to SMEs and

EOEs

The principal terms and conditions set forth in this Section I.C shall apply for the
purposes of paragraph 5(b) of Section I.B of this Schedule.

SME and EOE Eligibility Criteria

I.

Each Sub-financing shall be provided to a SME or an EOE only if it has been
established, to the satisfaction of the Borrower and PFI, that the following have
been satisfied and shall be maintained during the duration of the respective Sub-
financing:

(a)
(b)

(c)

(d)

itis a SME or an EOE;

it is a Private Enterprise. For purposes of this sub-paragraph 1(b), a
Private Enterprise is an enterprise where more than fifty percent (50%)
of the shares or other equity interest thereof is held by persons or
companies other than the Guarantor, any agency or subdivision thereof,
or any local governmental authority, or entities controlled by the
Guarantor or such agencies or subdivisions;

it has a satisfactory financial structure and the organization,
management, staff and financial and other resources required for the
efficient carrying out of its operations, including the carrying out of the
Sub-project; and

it has a certificate from the relevant local or national authorities of the

Guarantor about compliance with applicable environmental laws and
regulations of the Guarantor.

-|3-
Sub-project Eligibility Criteria

2.

Unless otherwise agreed between the Bank and the Borrower, each Sub-financing
shall be provided for a Sub-project which is determined, on the basis of an
appraisal carried out in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank:

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

to be technically feasible and economically, financially and
commercially viable;

to be in compliance with all requirements pertaining to environmental
protection applicable under the laws and regulations of the Guarantor and
with the Environmental Policy Framework. To that end, the PFI shall
require each SME or EOE applying for Sub-financing to furnish
evidence satisfactory to the PFI, the Borrower and the Bank, showing
that the Sub-project in respect of which the application has been made,
has been prepared in accordance with such procedures, such evidence to
include, inter alia, an environmental management plan prepared in
accordance with the requirements of the Environmental Policy
Framework for a Sub-project submitted for approval;

not to be supporting or include the purchase of land or used equipment;
and

not to be supporting or include any of the Excluded Activities.

Terms of Sub-financing to SMEs and EOEs

3.

Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, each Sub-financing shall be provided
on terms, including those relating to the maturity, interest rate, markup, charges
and/or fees determined in accordance with the PFI’s investment and lending
policies and practices, provided that:

(a)

(b)

the interest rate, markup, charges and/or fees, in the aggregate, to be
applied to the principal amount thereof withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, shall not be less than the Subsidiary Finance Rate
applicable from time to time pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of Section I.B of
this Schedule plus the PFI’s administrative costs and an appropriate risk
margin; and

each Sub-financing by Participation Bank PFIs shall have a minimum
maturity period of two (2) years.

Each Sub-financing to a SME or to an EOE shall not exceed the equivalent of
$3,500,000.

-14-
No expenditures for a Sub-project shall be eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Loan unless such expenditures shall have been made not earlier
than one hundred eighty (180) days prior to the date on which the PFI shall have
received the Sub-financing application and any information required under
paragraph 5 of Section I.B of this Schedule in respect of such Sub-financing.

Conditions of Sub-financing to SMEs and EOEs

6.

Each Sub-financing shall be provided on further conditions whereby the PFI shall
obtain, by written contract with the SME or EOE or by other appropriate legal
means, rights adequate to protect its interests and the interests of the Guarantor,
the Bank and the Borrower, including the right to:

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

(f)

Require the SME or EOE to carry out and operate the facilities financed
under the Sub-project with due diligence and efficiency and in
accordance with sound technical, financial and managerial standards, and
in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines
applicable to recipients of finance proceeds other than the Borrower, and
to maintain adequate records.

Without limitation to the generality of the provisions of the preceding
paragraph (a), require the SME or EOE to carry out and operate the Sub-
project with due regard to applicable social impact, ecological,
environmental and pollution control standards and in accordance with the
provisions of the Operational Manual.

For any Sub-project which needs an environmental management plan,
require the SME or EOE to carry out such plan in a timely manner.

Require that: (i) the goods, works, non-consulting services and
consultants’ services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Sub-
financing shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section
Ill of this Schedule; and (ii) use such goods, works, and services
exclusively in the carrying out of the Sub-project.

Inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank, the
Borrower or the Guarantor, if the Bank or the Guarantor shall so request,
such goods and the sites, works, plants and construction included in the
Sub-project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and
documents.

Require that the SME or EOE shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such
amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business practice; and without
any limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards

-|5-
(g)

(h)

incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods financed
out of the proceeds of the Sub-financing to the place of use or
installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable tn a currency
freely usable by the SME or EOE to replace or repair such goods.

Obtain all such information as the Bank or the Borrower shall reasonably
request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and
financial condition of the SME or EOE and to the benefits to be derived
from the Sub-project.

Require that, for any Sub-financing exceeding $1,000,000 equivalent
provided by a Participation Bank PFI, the SME or EOE concerned:

(1)

(ii)

(iii)

Submit to TSKB a cash flow statement in accordance with the
Operational Manual;

Have a ratio of financial obligation to equity (after receipt of the
Sub-financing) no greater than 85:15, and the term “equity”
means the sum of the total unimpaired paid-up capital, retained
earnings and reserves of the SME or EOE not allocated to cover
specific liabilities.

Not incur any financial obligation unless a reasonable forecast of
its revenues and expenditures shows that its net revenues for
each fiscal year during the term of the financial obligation to be
incurred shall be at least 1.1 times its estimated financial
obligation service requirements in such year on all its financial
obligations, including the financial obligation to be incurred and
for the purposes of this sub-paragraph h(iit):

(A) the term “financial obligation” means any financial
obligation of the SME or EOE;

(B) financial obligation shall be deemed to be incurred:
(1) under a finance contract or agreement or other
instrument providing for such financial! obligation or for
the modification of its terms of payment, on the date of
such contract, agreement or instrument; and (II) under a
guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
providing for such guarantee has been entered into;

(C) the term “financial obligation service requirements”
means the aggregate amount of repayments of, and
interest rate, expected returns and other charges/fees on,
the financial obligations;

-16-
(1)

(D)

(E)

(F)

the term “net revenues” means the difference between:
(I) the sum of income from all sources related to the
SME’s or EOE’s operations; and (II) the sum of
expenses related to the SME’s or EOE’s operations
(including taxes), but excluding provision for
depreciation, other non-cash operating charges and
interest rate, expected returns and other charges/fees on
financial obligations;

the term “reasonable forecast” means a forecast prepared
by the SME or EOE not earlier than twelve months prior
to the incurrence of the financial obligation in question,
which the PFI and the SME or EOE accept as reasonable
and as to which the PFI has notified the SME or EOE of
its acceptability, provided that no event has occurred
since such notification which has, or may reasonably be
expected in the future to have, a material adverse effect
on the financial condition or future operating results of
the SME or EOE; and

whenever for the purposes of this sub-paragraph h(iit) it
shall be necessary to value, in terms of the currency of
the Guarantor, financial obligation payable in another
currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of
the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such
other currency is, at the time of such valuation,
obtainable for the purposes of servicing such financial
obligation, or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis of
a rate of exchange acceptable to the PFI.

Suspend and terminate the right of the SME or EOE to the use of the
proceeds of the Sub-financing upon failure by such SME or EOE to
perform its obligations under its contract with the PFI.

Approval Procedures for Sub-financing

7. Each Sub-financing shall be approved by the PFI on the basis of:

(a)

-)

a description of the SME or EOE and an appraisal of the Sub-project,
including a description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan;

the proposed terms and conditions of the Sub-financing, including the
schedule of amortization or factoring payments of the Sub-financing;

-|7-
A.

l.

(c) evidence of compliance with the Operational Manual and with the
Environmental Policy Framework; and

(d) such other information as the Bank or the Borrower shall reasonably
request.

Unless otherwise agreed with the Bank, the Borrower shall ensure that the
following Sub-financing shall not be approved without the Bank’s prior approval:
the first two (2) Sub-financing by each PFI.

A prior approval by the Bank will be required for every Sub-financing to be
provided to a SME in an amount exceeding the equivalent of $2,000,000 and of
every Sub-financing to an EOE in an amount exceeding the equivalent of
$3,000,000.

Section II. Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

Project Reports

(a) The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project
(including progress in implementation of the Environmental Policy
Framework and plans prepared in accordance with said framework and
accepted by the Bank) and prepare Project Reports in accordance with
the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis
of indicators agreed with the Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the
period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not
later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such
report.

(b) Without limitation on the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) above, the
Borrower shall list, in the Project Report, basic information relating to.
each Sub-project approved for financing under the Project, including the
location and nature of the Sub-project, and the date on which Sub-project
activities began and were completed. Additionally, the Borrower agrees
that the Bank may disclose the foregoing information to the public.

Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits

The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.

Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall

prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report not later than forty-
five (45) days after the end of each calendar semester, interim unaudited financial

-18-
reports for the Project covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory
to the Bank.

The Borrower shall have:

(a) the Financial Statements for the Project audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of
the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the
Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall
be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of
such period; and

(b) its entity financial statements audited in accordance with standards set
forth in Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of such
entity financial statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the
Borrower and be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after
the end of such period.

Section III. Procurement

General

Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.

Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections J and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.

Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant
Guidelines, as the case may be.

Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services

International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph

2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.

-19-
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following method, other than International Competitive Bidding,
may be used for procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services where
the contract is estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $10,000,000: Well-
established Private Sector Procurement Methods or Commercial Practices which
have been found acceptable to the Bank and described in the Operational
Manual.

Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services

Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.

Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following
method, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants’ services where the contract is estimated to cost less
than the equivalent of $500,000: Well-established Private Sector Procurement
Methods or Commercial Practices which have been found acceptable to the Bank
and described in the Operational Manual.

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

All contracts for: (1) goods, works or non-consulting services procured using
International Competitive Bidding; and (2) consultants’ services procured using
Quality and Cost-based Selection, shall be subject to the Bank’s Prior Review.
The first contract from each PFI procured using Well-established Private Sector
Procurement Methods or Commercial Practices, shall be subject to the Bank’s
Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.

Section IV. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

General

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.

The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the

-20-
amounts of the Loan, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for
Eligible Expenditures.

 
      
  
    
    
     
   

  
         
       
      
  

Percentage of
Expenditures to be
Financed
(Inclusive of Taxes)

 
   

 
   
  

Amount of the Loan | Amount of the Loan
Allocated Allocated
Category (Expressed in Dollar) | (Expressed in Euro)

189,525,000 43,989,750

475,000 110,250
Interest Rate

Amount due

pursuant to Section

2.07(c) of this
Collar Agreement
TOTAL }ssogeana 000,000 44,100,000 ee

B. Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

  

100% of amount of
Sub-financing
disbursed

(1) Sub-
financing

  
     
     
   
 
    
 
  

(2) Front-end
Fee

Amount payable
pursuant to Section
2.03 of this
Agreement in
accordance with
Section 2.07 (b) of
the General
Conditions

  

     
     
    

  
      
  

(3) Interest
Rate Cap or

 

  

l. Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payment prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals up
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $38,000,000 equivalent for the Dollar
Tranche of the Loan and EUR 8,820,000 equivalent for the Euro Tranche of the
Loan and may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after
September 1, 2013, for Eligible Expenditures under Category (1).

2. The Closing Date is December 31, 2018.

-2|-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date (“Installment Share”). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.

Principal Payment Date Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage

On each March 15 and September 15
Beginning September 15, 2021
Through September 15, 2041

 
     
 
  

     

 
 
  

 
  

2.38%

On March 15, 2042 2.42%

If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:

  
 

(a) To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph |
of this Schedule. |

(b) Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph | of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”)
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.

-2)-
(a) Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.

(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
| at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs | and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.

If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.

-23-
APPENDIX

Definitions

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011, which
are applicable to all IBRD loans and IDA credits and grants.

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.

“Category A Sub-projects” means Sub-projects which are likely to have
significant adverse environmental impacts that are sensitive, diverse, or
unprecedented and require a full environmental impact assessment pursuant to
the provisions of the Operational Manual and the Environmental Policy
Framework.

“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers” dated January 2011.

“Displaced Persons” means persons who, on account of the execution of the
Project, have experienced or would experience direct economic and social
impacts caused by: (a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation
or loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income
sources or means of livelihood, whether or not such persons must move to
another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated
parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such
persons.

“Dollar Tranche of the Loan” means the amount of the Loan specified in Section
2.01 (a) of this Agreement

“Environmental Assessment Framework” means Environmental Review
Procedures disclosed by the Borrower on its website on April 24, 2014, and in
the Bank’s Infoshop on April 28, 2014, which set forth policies and procedures
for environmental screening of Sub-projects, for conducting environmental
assessments and specifying requirements for environmental mitigation measures
to be included in environmental management plans; and such document
constitutes an integral part of the Operational Manual.

“Environmental Management Plan” means any specific environmental
management plan, satisfactory to the Bank, to be carried out by a SME or an

-24-
EOE under a Sub-project, as may be required pursuant to the due observance of
the Environmental Assessment Framework by the PFIs and SMEs and EOEs, and
in accordance with the provisions of the respective Sub-financing contract, as
referred to in paragraph 6(c) of Section I.C of Schedule 2 of this Agreement,
wherein shall have been defined specific details of measures to manage potential
environmental risks and mitigate, reduce and/or offset adverse environmental
impacts associated with the implementation of activities under the Sub-project,
together with adequate institutional, monitoring and reporting arrangements
capable of ensuring proper implementation of, and regular feedback on
compliance with, its terms, as the same such environmental Management Plan
may be amended and supplemented from time to time, satisfactory to the Bank.

“Euro Tranche of the Loan” means the amount of the Loan specified in Section
2.01 (b) of this Agreement.

“Excluded Activities” means, collectively:

(a) any of the activities listed, or activities that produce and/or use materials
listed, in the Operational Manual and which are classified and referred to
as part of the negative list in said manual;

(b) an investment that is classified as a Category “A” Sub-project in
accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual;

(c) an investment that entails land acquisition or involuntary resettlement or
would give rise to Displaced Persons;

(d) an investment that involves the potential use of, or discharge into,
international waterways (or detailed design and engineering studies of
such investment), as such waterways shall have been described more
specifically in the Operational Manual; and

(e) an investment that involves the construction of a new dam or will rely on
the performance of an existing dam or a dam under construction.

“EOE” means an Export Oriented Enterprise: (a) with exports (as defined in the
Operational Manual) constituting at least ten (10%) percent of the enterprise’s
annual sales unless otherwise agreed with the Bank; (b) that employs less than
1,000 employees; and (c) satisfies the appropriate criteria as set forth in
paragraph | of Section I.C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and the Operational
Manual, and to which the PFI proposes to make or has made Sub-financing.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated March 12, 2012.

-25-
16.

20.

21.

22.

“Guarantee Agreement” means the agreement of the same date between the
Republic of Turkey and the Bank providing for the guarantee of the Loan, as
such agreement may be amended from time to time.

“Guarantor” means the Republic of Turkey.

“Factoring Company” means a company registered and operating in accordance
with the applicable laws and regulations of the Guarantor pertaining to
companies, while at the same time licensed to engage in transactions that include
transactions qualifying as factoring in accordance with the applicable laws and
regulations of the Guarantor pertaining to factoring.

“Operational Manual” means the manual to be adopted by the Borrower, setting
out the operational and administrative procedures in respect of the preparation,
approval, processing, financing, implementation, and supervision of Sub-
projects, and the manual includes the Environmental Policy Framework.

“Participating Financial Institution” or “PFI means any or each Participation
Bank or Factoring Company selected by the Borrower pursuant to the criteria set
forth in paragraph | Section 1.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and the
Operational Manual.

“Participation Bank” means an institution registered and operating as a
participation bank under the Guarantor’s Banking Law (Law No. 5411 published
in the Official Gazette dated November 1, 2005, No. 25983, as amended) and
other applicable laws and regulations of the Guarantor pertaining to banking.

“Priority Regions” means the regions defined in the Council of Minister's Decree
Number 2013/5502, published in the Official Gazette Number 28802 and dated
October 25, 2013, and as amended from time to time.

“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers” dated January 2011.

“Small or Medium Enterprise” or “SME” means an enterprise that: (a) employs
less than 250 employees; (b) either has less than 40,000,000 Turkish Lira in sales
or has assets valued at less than 40,000,000 Turkish Lira; and (c) satisfies the
appropriate criteria as set forth in paragraph | of Section I.C of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and the Operational Manual, and to which the PFI proposes to make
or has made Sub-financing.

“Sub-financing” means financing made or proposed to be made by a PFI to a

SME or an EOE, out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to
Category (1) of the table set forth in paragraph 2 of Section IV.A of Schedule |

-26-
23.

24.

25.

26.

27.

to this Agreement, for purposes of financing all or a portion of the expenditures
incurred by a SME or an EOE for goods, works, non-consulting services and
consultants’ services under a Sub-Project.

“Sub-project” means a specific project, selected in accordance with paragraph 2
of Section I.C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, which is proposed to be carried
out by a SME or an EOE, in whole or in part through the utilization of the
proceeds of any Sub-financing.

“Subsidiary Financing” means any financing provided by the Borrower to a PFI
pursuant to a Subsidiary Financing Agreement.

“Subsidiary Financing Agreement” and the acronym “SFA” mean an agreement
entered or to be entered into between the Borrower and a PFI pursuant to
paragraph 5 (b) of Section I.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Turkish lira” means the currency of the Guarantor.
“Tiirkiye Sinai Kalkinma Bankasi A. S.” or “TSKB” means a joint-stock
company established pursuant to the statutes published in Trade Registry Gazette

No. 7046 dated June 2, 1950 (Trade Registry No. 42527), which is responsible
for implementation of the Project.

-27-
