Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

 

OFFICIAL

   

ASE. ee LOAN NUMBER 8429-AL

Loan Agreement

(Albania Power Recovery Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated Ne O VEIVBER 5. 2014

 

 
LOAN NUMBER 8429-AL
LOAN AGREEMENT

Agreement dated Ne ovemser 4 , 2014, between the

REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA (“Borrower”) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”). The Borrower and the Bank
hereby agree as follows:

1.01.

1.02.

2.01

2.02.

2.03.

2.04.

2.05.

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.

ARTICLE II — LOAN

The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred and twelve million a
hundred thousand Euros (€112,100,000) as such amount may be converted from
time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of
Section 2.07 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”).

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.

The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by
the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(e) of the
General Conditions.

The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.
 

2.06.

2.07.

3.02.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

(a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.

(b) Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.

ARTICLE Ill — PROJECT

The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall carry out Part 4 of the Project through MoE] and shall
cause Part 1 of the Project to be carried out by KESh, Part 2 of the Project to be
carried out by OShEE and Part 3 of the Project to be carried out by OST
(collectively, the “Project Implementing Entities”) in accordance with the
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and the relevant Project
Agreements.

Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
4.01.

4.02.

5.01.

5.03.

6.01.

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK

The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that any
one of the Project Implementing Entity’s Legislation has been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely
the ability of said Project Implementing Entity to perform any of its obligations
under its respective Project Agreement.

The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely the event
specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs.

ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:

(a) The Borrower through MoEI has prepared and adopted a Project
Operations Manual satisfactory to the Bank.

(b) The Borrower through MoEI has: (i) established a PMU and caused the
Project Implementing Entities to each establish PIUs and, (ii) recruited
for the PMU and caused the Project Implementing Entities to recruit for
the PIUs, staff with qualifications, experience and resources satisfactory
to the Bank.

(c) The Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been executed on behalf of the
Borrower and the Project Implementing Entities.

The Additional Legal Matter consist of the following, namely, the Subsidiary
Agreements have been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and each
respective Project Implementing Entity and each Subsidiary Agreement is
legally binding upon the Borrower and each respective Project Implementing
Entity in accordance with its terms.

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.

ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister for Finance.

-3-
 

6.02. The Borrower’s Address 1s:

Ministry of Finance

No. 3 Bulevardi “Deshmoret e Kombit”
Tirana

Albania

Facsimile:
355 42228494
6.03. The Bank’s Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America

Cable address: Telex: Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 64145(MCI)
AGREED at Tirana, Republic of Albania, as of the day and year first above written.

REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA

By

    

orized Representative

Name: .SHKEZ Qryt CPV /
Title WHNW/S7LR OF FINANCES

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By Fabre... J

Authorized Representative

Name: JAHSE SAVES
rite. Gun tRy Nannoce
 

SCHEDULE 1

Project Description

The objective of the Project is to improve reliability of supply and financial
viability of the power sector.

The Project consists of the following parts:

Part 1. Short-Term Complementary Power Import Support

 

Providing support to the Borrower to purchase short term complementary power
imports to meet the power shortage resulting from KESh’s reduced power
generation capacity as a result of the turbines rehabilitation work.

Part 2. Upgrading Distribution Infrastructure

Assisting the Borrower to reduce power losses, improve cash collection and
reliability of power supply through:

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

supplying and installing transformers and ancillary equipment at selected
substations in Tirana;

providing targeted investments in the medium voltage grid including
cable lines, concrete poles, metal clad switchgears, power distribution
cabins and associated metering equipment;

supplying and installing power meters to cater for customers who have
no or damaged meters; and

upgrading the billing and collection system and providing any necessary
training to utilize it.

Part 3. Transmission Meter/Data Center Upgrade

Strengthening the capacity of OST to transmit power, including:

(a)
(b)

providing power meters and upgrading a data center; and

supplying and installing an information technology system for the OST
data center and providing technical assistance for developing procedures
for the establishment of a market platform, for independent power
producers and eligible customers among others.

-6-
Part 4. Supporting Power Sector Reforms and Project Implementation

(a) Carrying out priority power sector reforms to facilitate the recovery of
the power sector and improve the management of the distribution
company, through the provision of technical advisory services for:

(1) revising the power market model to introduce more competition
in the sector and reduce the Borrower’s power supply obligation
as per the relevant EU directives;

(11) revising the renewable energy law to ensure sustainability of
independent power producers;

(iii) | introducing a new cost-recovery tariff methodology to reflect
updates in the power market model;

(iv) updating the Borrower’s current energy strategy; and

(v) designing implementation and monitoring of social outreach
programs targeting electricity consumers and key stakeholders.

(b) Supporting a Project Management Unit within MoEI through the
provision of goods, Operating Costs, Training, and technical advisory
services.

(c) Recruiting specialized advisory services to support the implementation
and monitoring of the OShEE Performance Management Program.

(d) Carrying out a risk management study to mitigate the impact of weather
volatility in the power sector.
SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Section I. Implementation Arrangements

A.

I.

Institutional Arrangements

Project Management Unit

The Borrower through MoE] shall establish and maintain throughout the
implementation of the Project, a Project Management Unit, which will be
managed by a Project Coordinator appointed by MoEI with key staff with
functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank, including the following
additional responsibilities: (a) preparing the Project Operations Manual, together
with PIUs, to be approved by the Minister of Energy and Industry; ( b) assisting
PIUs in developing bidding documents; (c) assisting the Borrower, through the
MoEI in the establishment of Bid Evaluation Committees, comprising of staff
from PMU and PIUs, as appropriate, according to the Project Operations Manual;
(d) supporting coordination in the design and monitoring of social outreach
programs; (e) carrying out implementation oversight including supervision, as
appropriate; and (f) providing periodic monitoring and evaluation of Project
implementation.

Project Implementation Units

(a) The Borrower through MoEI shall cause the Project Implementing
Entities to establish and maintain throughout implementation of the
Project, PIUs with key staff including project coordinators, procurement
specialists, financial management specialists and other needed technical
specialists with functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank.

(b) The PIUs shall meet at least bi-annually and shall be responsible for the
day to day implementation of the Project Implementing Entities’
Respective Parts of the Project, including the preparation and submission
of the relevant budgets to the PMU for processing.

Implementation Arrangements

Project Operations Manual

Without limitation to the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, the
Borrower shall through MoEI ensure that:
(a)

(b)

the Project is carried out in accordance with the Project Operations
Manual; and

the Project Operational Manual or any part thereof is not amended,
waived, suspended or abrogated without the Bank’s prior written
concurrence, and in case of any inconsistency between the provisions of
the Project Operational Manual and those of this Agreement, the
provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.

Subsidiary Loan Agreements

(a)

(b)

To facilitate the carrying out of the Project Implementing Entities’
Respective Parts of the Project, the Borrower shall lend the proceeds of
the Loan allocated to Part 1 of the Project to KESh, the proceeds of the
Loan allocated to Part 2 of the Project to OShEE and the proceeds of the
Loan allocated to Part 3 of the Project to OST under subsidiary
agreements (“Subsidiary Loan Agreements”) between the Borrower and
each of the Project Implementing Entities, under terms and conditions
approved by the Bank, including the following:

(1) the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements shall be
denominated and repayable in LEK;

(ii) the Borrower shall charge interest on the principal amount
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at the rate of three
quarters of one percent (0.75%) per annum; and

(iii) the Subsidiary Loans shall be repayable over a period not
exceeding twenty-two and a half (22.5) years from the date of
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, inclusive of a grace period not
exceeding seven (7) years.

(iv) OShEE will contribute ten percent (10%) of the contract value
under Category 2 and OST twenty percent (20%) of the contract
value under Category 3 respectively as set forth in the table in
Section V of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and ensure that all
the relevant contracts are procured in accordance with the
applicable World Bank procurement guidelines.

The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each respective Subsidiary
Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree in writing, the Borrower shall
not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any Subsidiary Loan Agreement or
any of its provisions.

-9-
3.

C.

(a)

(b)

(c)

Power Service Contracts

In implementing Part 4(a) of the Project, the Borrower shall, not later
than October 31, 2014, ensure that the Project Implementing Entities
enter into agreements (the “Power Service Contracts”’), satisfactory to the
Bank, comprising:

(1) the PSC between KESh and OShEE (the “KESh/OShEE PSC”)
setting out OShEE’s obligation to purchase power generated by
KESh;

(it) the PSC between KESh and OST (the “KESh/OST PSC”) setting
out OST’s obligations to transmit the power generated by KESh;
and

(11) | the PSC between OShEE and OST (the “OShEE/OST PSC”)
setting out OST’s obligations to transmit power purchased by
OShEE.

The Borrower shall ensure that the PSCs contain information on: (i) daily
scheduling, deviations and accounting; (i1) monthly energy balance; (111)
monthly energy and financial settlement based on methodology
monitored and established by the market operator and OST; and (iv) the
monthly payments and guarantees through commercial banks.

The Borrower shall ensure that the Power Service Contracts are not
assigned, amended, abrogated or waived without the Bank’s prior
approval in writing.

Anti-Corruption

The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.

D.

l.

Safeguards

In implementing Parts 2 and 3 of the Project, the Borrower shall cause OShEE
and OST to ensure that their Respective Parts of the Project are carried out in
accordance with the Safeguard Frameworks and Safeguard Instruments. To that
end, the Borrower shall cause OShEE and OST to take the following actions in a
manner acceptable to the Bank:

(a)

if any Project activity, pursuant to the Environmental and Social
Management Framework (“ESMF”):

-10-
(b)

Section II.

A.

(ii)

requires the carrying out of an Environmental and Social Impact
Assessment (“ESIA”): (A) carry out an ESIA in accordance with
the requirements of the ESMF and furnish said ESIA to the Bank
for review and approval; and (B) disclose said ESIA as required
by the ESMF and approved by the Bank; and

requires the preparation of an Environmental and Social
Management Plan (“ESMP”): (A) prepare an ESMP in
accordance with the ESMF and furnish said ESMP to the Bank
for review and approval; and (B) disclose said ESMP as required
by the ESMF and approved by the Bank; and

if a Resettlement Action Plan (“RAP”) is required for any Project
activity under OShEE’s or OST’s Respective Part of the Project, on the
basis of the Resettlement Policy Framework (“RPF”):

(i)

(ii)

prepare said RAP in accordance with the requirements of the
RPF, disclose it locally and furnish it to the Bank for review and
approval; and

ensure that no activity in which land acquisition involving
resettlement of any persons shall be commenced until all
measures required to be taken under said RAP prior to the
initiation of said activity have been taken.

Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

Project Reports

The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project
Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and
on the basis of indicators acceptable to the Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the
period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than one
month after the end of the period covered by such report.

B.

1.

Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits

The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General

Conditions.

The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45)
days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports
for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the

Bank.

-11-
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower,
commencing with the fiscal year in which the first withdrawal was made. The
audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank
not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.

Section III. Procurement

A.

I.

General

Goods and Non-consulting Services. Al! goods and non-consulting services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in
Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.

Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.

Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, [V and V of the Consultant
Guidelines, as the case may be.

Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-consulting Services

International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.

Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-consulting Services. The
following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used
for procurement of goods and non-consulting services for those contracts
specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) National Competitive Bidding; (b)
Shopping; (c) Direct Contracting and (d) procurement of commodities, following
the procedures set forth in para 2.68 of the Procurement Guidelines.

Modifications to the Borrower’s National Competitive Bidding Procedures.
The National Competitive Bidding procedures (“NCB”) shall be based on the
Open Tendering procedures as defined in the Public Procurement Law (“PPL”)
of Albania (Law No. 9643 dated November 20, 2006, as amended), provided,
however, that such procedure shall be subject to the provisions of Section I and

-|2-
 

Paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Procurement Guidelines and the following
additional provisions:

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

(f)

(g)

(h)

(1)

Gj)

(k)

(1)

“Open Tendering” procedures as defined in the PPL of Albania shall
apply to all contracts financed by the Bank.

Foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding and no preference
of any kind shall be given to national bidders in the bidding process.
Government-owned enterprises in Albania shall be permitted to bid only
if they are legally and financially autonomous and operate under
commercial law of the Borrower. Registration shall not be used to
assess bidders’ qualifications.

Bids shall be opened in public in one location, immediately after the
deadline for submission of bids in the presence of the representatives
who choose to attend.

The procuring entities shall use sample bidding documents as approved
by the Bank.

In case of higher bid prices compared to the official estimate, all bids
shall not be rejected without the prior concurrence of the Bank.

A single-envelope procedure shall be used for the submission of bids.
Post-qualification shall be conducted only on the lowest evaluated
bidder; no bid shall be rejected at the time of bid opening on

qualification grounds.

Bidders in the form of a joint venture shall be held jointly and severally
liable.

Before rejecting all bids and soliciting new bids, the prior concurrence
of the Bank shall be obtained.

Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated, substantially
responsive bidder who is determined to be qualified to perform in

accordance with pre-defined and pre-disclosed evaluation criteria.

Post-bidding negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest evaluated
or any other bidders.

Contracts of long duration (more than 18 months) shall contain
appropriate price adjustment provisions.

-13-
D.

(m) Bid and contract guarantees shall be in the format included in the
bidding documents. The bid guarantee shall be valid for twenty-eight
(28) days beyond the original validity period of the bid, or beyond any
period of extension if requested. No advance payments shall be made to
without a suitable advance payment guarantee.

(n) The bidding document and contract as deemed acceptable by the Bank
shall include provisions stating the Bank’s policy to sanction firms or
individuals, found to have engaged in fraud and corruption as defined in
the Procurement Guidelines.

(0) In accordance with the Procurement Guidelines, each bidding document
and contract financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall provide that
bidders, suppliers and contractors, and their subcontractors, agents,
personnel, consultants, service providers, or suppliers, shall permit the
Bank to inspect all accounts, records, and other documents relating to
the submission of bids and contract performance, and to have them
audited by auditors appointed by the Bank. Acts intended to materially
impede the exercise of the Bank’s inspection and audit rights provided
for in the Procurement Guidelines constitute an obstructive practice as
defined in the Procurement Guidelines.

Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services

Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.

Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants’ services for those contracts which are specified in
the Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based Selection; (b) Selection based on
Consultants’ Qualifications; (c) Single-source Selection of consulting firms; (d)
Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for
the Selection of Individual Consultants; and (e) Single-source procedures for the
Selection of Individual Consultants.

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s
Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.

-14-
Section IV.

A.

l.

Other Undertakings

Revenue Escrow Account

The Borrower shall:

(a) not later than December 31, 2014, cause OShEE to open a Revenue
Escrow Account in a financial institution satisfactory to the Bank and
deposit its monthly revenues to pay for the transmission and energy
purchase costs in accordance with the following schedule:

(i) for each of the first twelve (12) months, pay eight-five percent
(85%) of the monthly energy purchase invoice to KESh and
eight-five percent (85%) of the monthly transmission fees
invoice to OST;

(11) for each of the next twenty-four (24) months, pay ninety-five
percent (95%) of the monthly energy purchase invoice to KESh
and ninety-five percent (95%) of the monthly transmission fees
invoice to OST;

Git) for each of the next thirty-six (36) months, pay one hundred
percent (100%) of the monthly energy purchase invoice to KESh
and one hundred percent (100%) of the monthly transmission
fees invoice to OST; and

(iv) thereafter pay one hundred and five percent (105%) of the
monthly energy purchase invoice to KESh and 105% of the
monthly transmission fees invoice to OST until such time as the
revenue arrears of each Project Implementing Entity are fully
amortized.

(b) ensure that any of OShEE’s residual funds remaining after paying KESh
and OST are transferred to OShEE on a monthly basis; and

(c) cause OShEE to subject the Revenue Escrow Account to an annual audit
satisfactory to the Bank.

Debt Equity Ratio

Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that OST
and KESh do not incur any debt if, after the incurrence of such debt, the ratio of
debt to equity shall be greater than sixty (60) to forty (40).

For purposes of this Section:

-15-
(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

The term “debt” means any indebtedness of KESh or OST maturing by
its terms more than one year after the date on which it is originally
incurred.

Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan contract or
agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or for the
modification of its terms of payment on the date of such contract,
agreement or instrument; and (ii) under a guarantee agreement, on the
date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been entered into.

The term “equity” means the sum of the total unimpaired paid-up capital,
retained earnings and reserves of the OST or KESh not allocated to cover
specific liabilities.

Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to value,
in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in another
currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of the prevailing
lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency is, at the time of
such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt, or, in
the absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to
the Bank.

Debt Service Coverage

Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree in writing, the Borrower shall take all
the necessary steps to ensure:

(a)

(b)

that OST and KESh shall not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast
of the revenues and expenditures of OST and KESh shows that the
estimated net revenues of OST and KESh for each fiscal year during the
term of the debt to be incurred shall be at least one (1.0 ) for the first
thirty-six (36) months and thereafter one and six tenths (1.6) times the
estimated debt service requirements of the relevant Project Implementing
Entity in such year on all debt of the OST and KESh, including the debt
to be incurred.

that a reasonable forecast of OShEE’s net revenues and expenditures
demonstrates that the ratio of estimated net revenue to debt service

requirements is as follows:

(1) within thirty-six (36) months of the Effective Date, six tenths
(0.6);

(ii) within the subsequent thirty-six (36) months, one (1.0); and

-16-
(iii) ‘thereafter, one and six tenths (1.6).

For the purposes of this Section:

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

(€)

(f)

The term “debt” means any indebtedness of the Project Implementing
Entities maturing by its terms more than one year after the date on which
it is originally incurred.

Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan contract or
agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or for the
modification of its terms of payment on the date of such contract,
agreement or instrument; and (i) under a guarantee agreement, on the
date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been entered into.

The term “net revenues” means the difference between:

(i) the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations and
net non-operating income; and

(11) the sum of all expenses related to operations including
administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in
lieu of taxes, but excluding provision for depreciation, other non-
cash operating charges and interest and other charges on debt.

The term “net non-operating income” means the difference between:

(1) revenues from all sources other than those related to operations;
and
(ii) expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, incurred

in the generation of revenues in (i) above.

The term “debt service requirements” means the aggregate amount of
repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest and
other charges on, debt.

The term “reasonable forecast” means a forecast prepared by the
respective Project Implementing Entity not earlier than twelve months
prior to the incurrence of the debt in question, which both the Bank and
the Borrower accept as reasonable and as to which the Bank has notified
the Borrower of its acceptability, provided that no event has occurred
since such notification which has, or may reasonably be expected in the
future to have, a material adverse effect on the financial condition or
future operating results of the applicable Project Implementing Entity.

-17-
D.

(g) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to value,
in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in another
currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of the prevailing
lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency is, at the time of
such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt, or, in
the absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to
the Bank.

Business Plans

The Borrower shall cause each Project Implementing Entity to prepare and submit to the
Bank and the Borrower no later than December 31 of each year, a five year business plan
including associated financial projections, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.

E.

I.

F.

Power Sector Financial Recovery Plan

The Borrower shall, no later than October 30, 2014, submit to the Bank a Power
Sector Financial Recovery Plan, satisfactory to the Bank and including, but not
limited to, sources of funding for: (a) power imports not financed by the Project;
(b) retail power subsidies; (c) payments made to private power producers; and (d)
projected financial deficits for the power sector.

Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree in writing, the Borrower shall not
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Power Sector Financial Recovery Plan or

any of its provisions.

OShEE Debt Service Obligations and Restructuring

The Borrower shall take all measures necessary to ensure that all OShEE’s debt service
obligations are met and shall inform and consult with the Bank on any proposed
restructuring of OShEE and thereafter only undertake such restructuring as shall have
been agreed in writing with the Bank.

Section V. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

A.

1.

General

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.

-18-
2. The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.

Percentage of
Amount of the Loan Expenditures to be
Allocated financed

Category (expressed in Euros) (exclusive of Taxes)
(1) Short Term Power 100%
Purchases under Part | of
the Project
(2) Goods, Consulting 69,500,000 90%
services, non-consulting
services, and Training
under Part 2 of the Project

(3) Goods, Consulting 14,950,000 80%
services, and non-

consulting services under

Part 3 of the Project

(4) Goods, consulting 4,950,000 100%
services, non-consulting

services, Training, and

Operating Costs under Part

4 of the Project

(5) Front-end Fee 280,250 Amount payable pursuant
to Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07(b) of the
General Conditions

TOTAL AMOUNT 112,100,000 Po

 

B. Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

l. Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payment made prior to the date of this, except that withdrawals up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed €100,000 equivalent may be made for payments
made prior to this date but on or after September 29, 2013, for Eligible
Expenditures under Category 4.

2. The Closing Date is November 30, 2019.

-19-
SCHEDULE 3

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date (“Installment Share”). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.

Installment Share
(Expressed as a

Principal Payment Date Percentage)

On each November 15 and May 15

Beginning November 15 , 2021
through and including May 15, 2036

On November 15, 2036

 

If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:

(a) To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1
of this Schedule.

(b) Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”)
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any

-20-
(a)

(b)

amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.

Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.

Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs | and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.

-2|-
APPENDIX
Definitions

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.

“Bid Evaluation Committees” means the committees to be established by the
Borrower in consultation with MoEI comprising members of the PMU and the
PIUs to evaluate the Project bidding documents and referred to in Section
].A.1(c) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.

“CEZ Shperndarje” or “CEZ Sh” means a power distribution company
established and operating pursuant to the law on the Establishment of the
Distribution System Operator JSC dated June 8, 2007, or its legal successor.

“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers” dated January 2011, and revised July 2014.

“Displaced Persons” means persons who, on account of the execution of the
Project would suffer direct economic and social impacts resulting in: (a) the
involuntary taking of land resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of shelter; (ii) loss of
assets or access to assets; and (iii) loss of income sources or means of livelihood,
whether or not the affected persons must move to another location; or (b) the
involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and protected areas
resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihoods of said persons.

“Environmental and Social Impact Assessment” or “ESIA” means, with respect
to each activity under Parts 2 and 3 of the Project pursuant to which the ESMF
requires an environmental and social impact assessment, such assessment carried
out to this Agreement, in accordance with the ESMF; and “ESIAs” means more
than one ESIA.

“Environmental and Social Management Framework” or “ESMF” means the
environmental and social framework prepared by the OShEE and disclosed
locally on OShEE website on April 23, 2014 and on the Bank’s Infoshop on
April 25, 2014, setting forth the modalities for environmental screening and
procedures for the preparation and implementation of environmental and social
impact assessments and environmental and/or social management plans under

-22-
11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

Parts 2 and 3 of the Project, and such term includes all schedules and annexes to
the ESMF.

“Environmental and Social Management Plan” or “ESMP” means, with respect
to each activity under Part 2 of the Project pursuant to which the ESMF and the
ESIA of said activity requires an environmental and social management plan,
such plan prepared in accordance with the ESMF and ESIA pursuant to the
provisions of Section I.D of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and “ESMPs” means
more than one ESMP.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated March 12, 2012.

“Korporata Elektroenergjetike Shqiptare” or “KESh” means a power generation
company, established and operating pursuant the law on Establishment of
Albanian Power Corporation JSC dated October 10, 1995, or its legal successor
thereto.

“KESh/ OShEE PSC” means a Power Service Contract between KESh and the
OShEE referred to in Section I.B.3 (a) (1) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“KESh/OST PSC” means a Power Service Contract between KESh and OST
referred to in Section I.B.3 (a) (ii) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“LEK” means the Borrower’s local currency.

“Medium Voltage Consumers” means the customers connected in 35/20/10/6 kV
distribution network.

“MoEI” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Energy and Industry or its legal
successor thereto.

“Operating Costs” means incremental operating costs incurred on account of
Project implementation, management, monitoring and supervision (as such
expenditures are set forth in the PMUs annual budget), including office supplies,
office equipment maintenance, software/user license fees, communication, local
travel, vehicles operation and maintenance and salaries of the PMU staff (but
excluding the salary of civil servants of the Borrower).

“Operatori i Sistemit té Transmetimit” or “OST” means a joint stock power
transmission company, established and operating pursuant the law on the
Establishment of Transmission System Operator JSC dated April 12, 2003 or its
legal successor thereto.

-23-
19.

20.

21.

22.

23.

24.

25.

26.

27.

28.

“OShEE” or “Operatori i Shperndarjes se Energjise Elektrike” means a joint
stock power distribution company and legal successor to CEZ Sh.

“OShEE Performance Management Program” means an action plan comprising a
set of measures undertaken by MoEI and OShEE for the purpose of improving
the performance of OShEE and as a basis for a results-based contract with
OShEE’s management.

“QShEE/OST PSC” means the Power Service Contract between OShEE and
OST referred to in Section J.B.2 (a) (iii) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Power Sector Financial Recovery Plan” means the plan to be prepared and
approved by the Council of Ministers, setting out the actions required to, among
others, improve efficiency, reduce losses, improve cash collection, and cover
unfunded deficits, in order for the power sector to become a self-sustaining
sector.

“Power Service Contract” or “PSC” means the OShHEE/OST PSC, KESh/OShEE
PSC and the KESh/OST PSC referred to in Section I.B.3 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.

“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers” dated January 2011, and revised July 2014.

“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project,
dated August 1, 2014 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.

“Project Implementing Entities” means KESh, OShEE, and OST, and Project
Implementing Entity means each one of them.

“Project Implementing Entities’ Legislation” means all the relevant legislation in
connection with the establishment and operation of the Project Implementing
Entities including the laws on: (a) Establishment of Albanian Power Corporation
JSC dated October 17, 1995; (b) Establishment of Transmission System Operator
JSC dated April 12, 2003; and (c) Establishment of the Distribution System
Operator JSC dated June 8, 2007.

“Project Implementing Units’ means the units to be established within each

Project Implementing Entity pursuant to an order to be issued by MOEI and
referred to in Section 1.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

24-
29.

30.

31.

32.

33.

34,

35.

36.

37.

“Project Management Unit” means a unit to be established within MoEI pursuant
to an order to be issued by MoEI including key staff to be recruited for the
Project and referred to in Section I.A.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement

“Project Operations Manual” means the manual prepared in accordance with
Section 1.B.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and confirmed to be satisfactory by
the Bank and adopted by the Borrower, describing and setting forth procedures for
implementation of the Project and institutional arrangements, consistent with the
provisions of this Agreement and with applicable laws and regulations and
including, inter alia, timetables of actions required to be carried out under the
Project, the respective roles and responsibilities of the Project Implementing
Entities and MoEI involved in the implementation of the Project as the same may
be amended from time to time.

“Resettlement Action Plan” or “RAP” means, for any Project activity under Parts
2 and 3 of the Project involving Displaced Persons, a resettlement action plan for
such activity prepared and implemented in accordance with the RPF pursuant to
the provisions of Section I.D of Schedule 2 too this Agreement.

“Resettlement Policy Framework” or “RPF” means the framework of the
Borrower dated and disclosed locally on April 24, 2014, setting forth the
modalities for resettlement and compensation of Displaced Persons under Parts 2
and 3 of the Project.

“Revenue Escrow Account” means the account referred to in Section IV.B.1 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Risk Management Strategy” means a study to be carried out by the Borrower
under Part 4 (d) of the Project for the purpose of mitigating weather volatility and
its impact in the power sector.

“Safeguard Framework” means the ESMF or RPF as the context may require;
and “Safeguard Frameworks” means, collectively, both of said frameworks.

“Safeguard Instrument” means an ESIA, ESMP or a RAP for a Project activity
under Parts 2 and 3 of the Project, as the context may require; and “Safeguard
Instruments” means, collectively, all such assessments or plans for Parts 2 and 3
of the Project.

“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section 1.B.2
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make a
part of the proceeds of the Loan available to the respective Project Implementing
Entities.

-25-
38.

39.

“Transmission Meter/Data Center” means the facility that is responsible for data
acquisition, metering for Medium Voltage Customers, feeders and independent
power producers.

“Training” means the reasonable costs associated with local and international
training, workshop and study tour of personnel involved in Project activities, as
specified in the Annual Work Plan and Budget including, said costs to consist of
travel, accommodation and subsistence for training, workshop and study tour
participants, costs associated with securing the services of trainers, rental of
training and workshop facilities, preparation and reproduction of training and
workshop materials, and other costs directly related to training course, workshop
or study tour preparation and implementation (but excluding costs of consulting
services).

26-
