Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

i ~~ “enuemmensmemiin, «~~ ~~ *

he
4 1

OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS .

& MMe

%

 

 

 

LOAN NUMBER 8402-GE

Loan Agreement

(Third Secondary and Local Roads Project)
between
GEORGIA
and.

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated July g , 2014

 

 
 

LOAN NUMBER 8402-GE
LOAN AGREEMENT

Agreement dated J uly » 2014, between GEORGIA
(“Borrower”) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:

1.01.

1.02.

2.01,

2.02.
2.03.

2.04.

2.05.

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CON DITIONS; DEF INITIONS

The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.

ARTICLE Il — LOAN

The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of seventy five million United States
dollars (US$75,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07
of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the Project described in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”),

The Borrower may withdraw the Proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.

the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a Period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3,02 (€) of the
General Conditions.

The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year,
2.06.

2.07.

3.01.

3.02.

1 RUA ee pt eee mente te

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

(a)

(b)

(c)

The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis. applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.

Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.

Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE Il] — PROJECT

The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions.

Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall

-2-
4.01.

4.02.

5.01.

9.02.

5.03.

ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV— EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that

the Borrower has submitted to the Bank the Project’s Operations Manual in form
and substance acceptable to the Bank. "

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and twenty (120) days after
the date of this Agreement.

ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance.
The Borrower’s Address is:
Ministry of Finance
16 Gorgasali Street
0114 Tbilisi
Georgia
Facsimile:
995-32-2261461
The Bank’s Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America

Cable address: Telex: Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-639]
Washington, D.C. 64145(MCI)
ss atteeseahaiiaeineee aeeranalinaesbnandhiaiaeesaiam tenentaddimbiannnbadamemmmannmmemmannd eee ini mn mmm eceehieeannannnennrianermtemeeeennrin ern reese een

AGREED at Tbilisi, Georgia, as of the day and year first above written.

GEORGIA

By

 
    

Gly
Authorjzed Representative

Name: VODAR KUADUR|
Title. MINISTER OF FINAN Ce

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

Authorized Representative

‘Name: HENMRY ReRAu
Tite REGIONAL DOieEecTVe.

By

-4-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description

The objectives of the Project are to reduce transport costs on Project roads and
improve the sustainability of the secondary and local road asset management.

The Project consists of the following parts:

Part A: Rehabilitation and improvement of secondary and local roads

1. Rehabilitation and improvement of about 200 km of secondary and local roads,
including: (a) about 53 km of local roads; and (b) about 147 km of secondary roads
including !5 km of the Gurjaani-Bakurtsikhe bypass.

2. Preparing detailed designs of about 110 km of roads and conducting construction —
supervision and quality assurance services for all civil works financed under the Project.

3, Preparation of designs and supporting studies for future transport projects.

Part _B: Capacity Building and Strengthening in Local and Secondary Roads’
Management

l. Capacity building of MRDI to provide technical oversight in local roads asset
management through the provision of consultants’ services, and Training.

2. Carrying out a study to determine the feasibility of piloting local roads routine
maintenance using a micro-enterprising approach through the provision of consultants’
services.

3. Strengthening the capacity of RD in: (a) Project management and
implementation; and (b) secondary roads management, through the provision of goods,
consultants’ services, and Training.

4. Institutional support to TRRC related to Project financial management and audits
through the provision of consultants’ services.

Part C: Road Safety Technical Assistance

 

Developing and implementing road safety measures on secondary and local roads
through: (1) the implementation of additional road safety engineering measures including
sidewalks, pedestrian crossing, installation of speed bumps, barriers, blinking traffic
lights near schools and other public places outside the scope of rehabilitation or
improvement works; (2) education and publicity campaigns targeting residents living
along these three local roads and other road users; and (3) enhancing technical capacity in

-5-
road safety management to cover engineering, enforcement and emergency response,
through the provision of goods, consultants’ services, and Training.
SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Section I. Implementation Arrangements

Institutional Arrangements

The Borrower shall carry out the Project, through the RD, with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
engineering, public utility, environmental practices and in accordance with the
Operations Manual and shall provide the RD with the resources and staff
necessary for implementing the Project. The RD shall be responsible for the
overall coordination and oversight of the Project implementation.

By not later than one month as of the Effective Date, the MRDI, RD and TRRC
shall duly amend the Project Implementation Agreement for the purposes of
setting forth the obligations of the parties thereto in relation to the Project
implementation in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. Pursuant to the terms and
conditions of the Project Implementation Agreement, the RD shall be assisted in
Project-related financial management and disbursement by the TRRC. The
Borrower shall: (a) maintain the TRRC with terms of reference, resources and
staff necessary for proper Project implementation and satisfactory to the Bank;
and (b) require TRRC to carry out the financial management and disbursement
for the Project in accordance with the Project Implementation Agreement.

During Project implementation, the RD shall maintain the FPU with terms of
reference, resources and staff necessary for proper Project implementation and
satisfactory to the Bank, to assist RD in Project-related procurement, monitoring
and evaluation and Project reporting.

The Borrower shall permit the use of standards for construction, planning and
design of roads adopted by the European Union (in addition to the national
standards), acceptable to the Bank, in the design, construction and maintenance
of road works under the Project.

The Borrower shall ensure that adequate budgetary resources are made available
for the Project in the Borrower’s annual budget for the duration of the Project.

The Borrower shall cause TRRC to maintain a financial auditor under terms of
reference and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.

-7-
Anti-Corruption

The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.

Safeguards

The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the ESMF, EMP(s), RPF and RAP(s). The Borrower shall not
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the ESMF, EMP(s), RPF and/or RAP(s) or any
provision thereof, without the prior approval of the Bank.

For purposes of Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall: (a) prior to the issuance
of the bidding documents for the works contract for each segment of the road,
prepare and submit to the Bank for its approval: (i) the proposed design and site
for said works and, the related site-specific Environmental and Social Impact
Assessment (ESJA) report, including EMP, or a self-standing EMP as relevant in
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) the draft contract for said
works to ensure that the provisions of said site-specific EMP are adequately
included in said contract; (b) prior to the signing of the contract for said works
which require land acquisition, prepare and submit to the Bank for its approval
the site-specific RAP(s) in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank; and (c)
prior to the commencement of the works, ensure that the owners and users of the
land where said works are to be implemented are fully compensated in
accordance with the provisions of the RAP(s).

The Borrower shall: (a) ensure that all activities undertaken for the purpose of
carrying out of the Project comply with environmental standards and guidelines
satisfactory to the Bank; (b) ensure that the selection of any road section under
Part A of the Project is done in accordance with the provisions of the ESMF; (c)
ensure the complete implementation of the EMPs in a manner acceptable to the
Bank, including all necessary measures to minimize and to mitigate any adverse
environmental impacts caused by the implementation of the Project; and (d)
maintain the RD’s environmental unit with competent staff in adequate numbers
and with such responsibilities and functions acceptable to the Bank as shall
enable the RD to manage, coordinate and monitor the implementation of the
EMPs.

The Borrower shall: (a) ensure that the RD prepares RAPs according to the RPF;
(b} maintain or cause to be maintained by RD, and publicize or cause to be
publicized by RD, the availability of, grievance procedures to hear and determine
fairly and in good faith, in accordance with the RPF, all complaints raised in
relation to the implementation of the RAPs by those being rescttled (as that term
is defined in the RAP) or by those in host communities who are adversely
affected by the implementation of the RPF, and take all measures necessary to

-2-
implement the determinations made under such grievance procedures; (c)
through RD, employ a resettlement expert, satisfactory to the Bank, to conduct an
ex post review of the implementation of the RAPs: (d) through RD, furnish
promptly to the Bank the findings and recommendations for follow up action
resulting from each such review; and (c) through RD, implement all such
recommendations for follow up action as are agreed with the Bank.

Section II. Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

A.

Project Reports

The Borrower shall, through RD, monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project
and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of
the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the Bank.
Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of the
period covered by such report.

Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits

The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained, a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the Gencral
Conditions,

The Borrower shall cause TRRC to prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than
forty five (45) days after the end of each calendar semester, interim unaudited
financial reports for the Project covering the semester, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank.

The Borrower shall have the Project Financial Statements audited in accordance
with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of
the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the
Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of such period.

Section III. Procurement

 

A.

I.

 

General

Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.

-9.
Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.

Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections I, III, IV and V of the Consultant
Guidelines, as the case may be.

Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services

International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.

Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than
International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, works and
non-consulting services. The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances
under which such methods may be used:

Procurement Method

(a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional provisions set
forth in below:

(1) “Open competitive procedures” (i.e. “public tender”) shall be
the default rule. A single envelope procedure shall be used for
the submission of goods, works, or non-consulting services.

Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely
circulated national daily newspaper allowing a minimum of
thirty (30) days for the preparation and submission of bids.
Advertisements published in foreign language newspapers shall
be in compliance with such a 30-day-minimum in number of
days for bids preparation and submission.

Bidding shall not be restricted to pre-registered firms. If
registration is required, it shall not be denied to eligible bidders
for reasons unrelated to their capacity and resources to
successfully perform the contract (e.g., mandatory membership
in professional organizations, classification, etc). Post-

 

-10-
    
  

Procurement Method

 
 

qualification shall be conducted to verify that the bidder has the
capability and resources to successfully perform the contract.

 
 

(iv) | Government-owned enterprises in Georgia shall be eligible to
participate in bidding only if they can establish that they are
legally and financially autonomous, operate under commercial

law and are not a dependent agency of the Government.

Government-owned enterprises will be subject to the same bid

and performance security requirements as other bidders.

 
       
     
   
 

 
 

Procuring entities shall use the appropriate Bank’s sample
bidding documents, including pre-qualification documents, for
the procurement of goods, works, or non-consulting services,
and such documents shall contain draft contract and conditions
of contract including clauses on fraud and corruption, audit and
publication of award, all acceptable to the Bank.

 
      
    
  
 

 
 

Bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline
for submission of bids. Bidder’s representatives shall be
permitted to attend the bid opening.

 
   
  

Extension of bid validity shall be allowed once only for not
more than thirty (30) days. No further extensions should be
requested without the prior approval of the Bank.

    
    

(vii) Evaluation of bids shall be based on quantifiable criteria
expressed in monetary terms as defined in the bidding
documents, no merit point system and no domestic preference
shall be used in the evaluation of bids. Contracts shall be
awarded to qualified bidders having submitted the lowest
evaluated substantially responsive bid and no negotiations shall
be carried out prior to contract award.

 
 
      
    
     
  
 

 
 

Civil works contracts of long duration (e.g. more than eighteen
(18) months) shall contain an appropriate price adjustment
clause.

 
    
  
 

 
 

No bid shall be rejected purely on the basis that the bid price is
higher than the estimated budget for that procurement. All bids
shall not be rejected and new bids solicited without the Bank’s
prior concurrence.

 
 
    
 

-l]-
C.

 
 
    

 
 

Procurement Method
(b) Shopping

(c) Direct Contracting

  

Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services

Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.

Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based

Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services. The Procurement Plan
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used:

Procurement Method

Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

  
  

   
 
     
  

  

The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank’s Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.

-|2-
A.

l.

Section IV. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

 

General

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.

The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.

  
 
   
 

  
  
   
  

‘Percentage of
Expenditures to be
financed
(inclusive of Taxes)

   
   
 

Amount of the Loan
Allocated
(expressed in USD)

 
    
 
    
  

Category

   
  
 

 
   

(1) Goods, works, non-
consulting services, and
consultants’ services,
Training and Incremental
Operating Costs for the
Project

74,812,500

 
   
   
    
   

   

    

(2) Front-end Fee 187,500 Amount payable pursuant
to Section 2.03 of this

Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the

General Conditions

    
   
      
  
   

   
   
   

   
   

(3) Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar
premium

TOTAL AMOUNT

Amount due pursuant to
Section 2.07(c) of this
Agreement

 

-13-
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,600,000 equivalent may
be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after May 7, 2014, for
Eligible Expenditures under Category (1).

The Closing Date is September 30, 2018.

-14-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date (“Installment Share”). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.

  
 
 

  
 

Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)

   

Principal Payment Date

     
  

On each June 15 and December 15

  

Beginning December 15, 2024
through December 15, 2038

On June 15, 2039

If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:

     

(a) To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1
of this Schedule.

(b) Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”)
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any

-15-
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.

(a) Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall .be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.

(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.

If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.

-[6-
 

 

APPENDIX

Definitions

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.

“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers” dated January 2011.

“EMP(s)” means the Borrower’s site specific environmental management
plan(s), acceptable to the Bank, prepared or to be prepared by the Borrower
during the Project implementation, in accordance with the ESMF and approved
by the Bank, describing environmental mitigation, monitoring and institutional
measures for selected road sections under the Project.

“ESIA report(s)” means the Borrower’s site specific Environmental and Social
Impact Assessment report(s), acceptable to the Bank, prepared or to be prepared
by the Borrower during the Project implementation, in accordance with the
ESME and approved by the Bank, providing overview of environmental and
social aspects of the designed works, estimating their expected positive and
negative impacts, prescribing measures for risk mitigation, and outlining
environmental monitoring plan.

“ESMF” means the Borrower’s Environmental and Social Management
Framework, dated April 16, 2014, outlining the procedures for the environmental
and social screening, impact assessment, risk management, information
disclosure, consultation, and monitoring, related to the selection and
rehabilitation of the road sections under the Project.

“EPU” means the Foreign Projects Unit referred to under Part A.3 of Section I of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated March 12, 2012.

“Incremental Operating Costs” means reasonable and necessary incremental
expenses incurred by the Borrower with respect to Project implementation,
management and monitoring, including the costs of staff salaries (excluding
salaries of the Borrower’s civil service staff), communication, editing, printing

-17-
ie senna Ay ahaa RT

~ 12,

10.

Hl.

13.

14,

15.

16.

17.

and publication, translation, vehicle operation and maintenance, bank charges,
local travel costs and field trip expenses, office rentals, utilities, equipment and
supplies, based on the annual budget acceptable to the Bank.

“MRDI” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Regional Development and
Infrastructure any legal successor thereto.

“Operations Manual” means the Borrower’s operations: manual referred to Part
A.1 of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement as such manual may be updated
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank.

“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers” dated January 2011.

“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project,
dated May 7, 2014 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.

“Project Implementation Agreement” means the agreement between the MRDI,
RD and the TRRC, dated October 29, 2013 as amended pursuant to Part A.2 of
Section [ of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, setting forth the obligations of the
parties thereto in relation to the Project implementation in a manner satisfactory
to the Bank.

“RAP” or “RAPs” means the site specific resettlement action plan(s) satisfactory
to the Bank, to be prepared by the Borrower pursuant to Part C of Section I of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, setting out, inter alia, the principles and objectives
of the RAP, the affected persons’ eligibility criteria, compensation, assistance
and rehabilitation entitlements, as well as the monitoring and reporting
arrangements in conformity with the RPF.

“RD” means the Borrower’s Roads Department of the Ministry of Regional
Development and Infrastructure responsible for managing the Borrower’s road
network or any legal successor thereto.

“RPF” means the Borrower’s resettlement policy framework, acceptable to the
Bank, dated April 16, 2014, and referred to in Part C of Section I of Schedule 2
to this Agreement, describing the policies, procedures, plans and actions
(including the resettlement action plan(s)), and institutional measures related to
land acquisition and other social impacts that may arise during the Project and
other phases related to the Project, and satisfactory to the Bank.

-18-
18.

19.

“Training” means expenditures incurred by the Borrower in connection with
Project-related study tours, training courses, seminars, workshops and other
training activities, including travel and per diem costs of trainees and trainers,
based on the semi-annual budget acceptable to the Bank.

“TRRC” or “Transport Reform and Rehabilitation Center” means the Eurasia
Transport Corridor Investment Center established pursuant to Presidential Decree
No. N-161, dated April 21, 2000, or any legal successor thereto.

2

-19-
