Puhli¢ Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

ee
a” wns

OFFICIAL
| DOCUMENTS

- Mn *

;
}
;

 

 —

LOAN NUMBER 8339-PE

Loan Agreement

(Cusco Transport Improvement Project —
Mejoramiento del Transporte en la Ciudad del Cusco)

between
REPUBLIC OF PERU
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated J uk 2Y  ,201Y

 

 
LOAN AGREEMENT

Agreement dated Jude a , 2014, between the REPUBLIC
OF PERU (“Borrower”) and INTE ATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION

AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:

1.02.

2.01.

2.03.

2.04.

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.

ARTICLE II — LOAN

The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred and twenty million
United States Dollars (USD120,000,000), as such amount may be converted from
time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of
Section 2.07 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project
described in Schedule | to this Agreement (“Project”).

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower’s Representative for
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this
Section is the Borrower’s Minister of Economy and Finance, or its Director
General of Indebtedness and Public Treasury of the Ministry of Finance
(“MEF”), and/or any other person whom the Minister and/or the Director shall
designate and communicate in writing to the Bank.

The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee
not later than 60 days after the Effective Date.

The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
2.05.

2.06.

2.07.

3.01.

Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.

The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

(a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa: or (B)
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.

(b) Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.

ARTICLE III — PROJECT

The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall cause the Regional Government of Cusco, acting through
PER Plan COPESCO, to carry out the Project pursuant to the provisions of the
Resources Transfer Agreement, in collaboration with CPM, and in accordance
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.

Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
4.01.

4.02.

5.01.

5.02.

5.03.

6.01.

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK

The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following, namely, that the
Borrower and or the Regional Government of Cusco have amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed, waived, or failed to enforce the Resource Transfer
Agreement, whether in whole or in part, so as to affect materially and adversely
the ability of the Regional Government of Cusco to perform any of its obligations
thereunder.

The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that any
event specified in Section 4.01 above occurs and is continuing for a period of 60
days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower.

ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:

(a) the Resources Transfer Agreement has been executed on behalf of the
Borrower and the Regional Government of Cusco; and

(b) PER Plan COPESCO has prepared and adopted the Project Operations
Manual in a manner acceptable to the Bank.

The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely, that the Resource
Transfer Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the
Region of Cusco and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the Regional
Government of Cusco in accordance with its terms.

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date 90 days after the date of this Agreement,
but in no case later than 18 months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan (i.e. no
later than August 28, 2015).

ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Economy and Finance, provided
that the Borrower’s Director of Indebtedness and Public Treasury, may, by him
or herself represent the Borrower to sign amendments and/or notices to this
Agreement which are considered of an administrative and non-financial nature.
The signing by such Director of an amendment and/or notice shall constitute a
representation by the Borrower that any such amendment and/or notice is
considered to be administrative and non-financial in nature.

-4-
6.02. The Borrower’s Address is:

Ministry of Economy and Finance
Jr. Junin 319

Lima, Peru

Facsimile: +51 (1) 626-9921

6.03. The Bank’s Address is:

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America

Cable address: Telex: Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 64145(MCI)

AGREED at p, WAG (- CK , as
of the day and year first above written.

REPUBLIC OF PERU

By

 
 
 

 

 

uthorized Representative
Name: £745 _ N/GVER. CASTILLA

Title: M/V/$ 70 & C0 NOr7/A F/M AW LAL

 

 

Name: JOLGE FAW ty AR

 

Title: U0) CE PLES1 DEWTE PARRA AMERICA
LATIWA SY =2 CAei BE
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description

The objective of the Project is to improve mobility in the east-west corridor of
Cusco Provincial Municipality.

The Project consists of the following parts:

Component_1: Integral Improvement of the Vig _Expresa Avenue of the City of Cusco
(PIP-_Mejoramiento Integral de la Via Expresa de la Ciudad del Cusco: Ovalo Los

Libertadores-Puente Costanera-Nodo Versalles)

(a) (i) Carrying out of final detailed design studies for the completion of the
construction of the Via Expresa Avenue; and (ii) based on the final detailed
designs mentioned in (i) herein, carrying out of civil works which comprise of
approximately 6.7 km of a divided roadway with four local access lanes and four
lanes for a total width of approximately 50 meters for purposes of improving
connectivity and permeability in the surrounding urban road network for
pedestrians, bicycle users and motorized vehicles.

(b) Carrying out of supervision activities of the design and civil works referred to in
(a)(i) and (ii) above.
(c) Provision and installation of horizontal and vertical road signaling, including

traffic lights, and a control system compatible with CPM’s current traffic light
control system.

(d) Acquisition of land and provision of compensation (including cash compensation
and other assistance paid for involuntary resettlement) related to implementation
of the Project’s Resettlement Plan.

Component 2: Improvement of Mobility in the City of Cusco (Componente de
Consultorias)

(a) Mobility plan for the Historical Center of the City of Cusco: Provision of support
for the development and improvement of a mobility plan in the historical center
of the city of Cusco, paying special attention to the protection and exaltation of
its condition as World Heritage Site, and focused on the improvement of mobility
for users of public and non-motorized transport modes, and reducing traffic
congestion caused by inefficient use of vehicles in the historic city center.

(b) Design of a strategy for the strengthening of the management capacity for the

implementation of the public transport plan, strengthening CPM’s traffic
authorities capacity for the implementation of public transport and traffic

-6-
(c)

(d)

regulation plans, mobility planning, financing and acquisition of transport
models, hardware, planning software and monitoring systems, as well as the
provision of training for CPM’s technical transport planning personnel.

Bicycle Use Promotion: Designing and implementing pedestrian and biking paths
circuits in peri-urban areas to foster the use of bicycles and other non-motorized
modes of transport, including the construction of a biking path in the Via Expresa
Avenue and the development of a bicycle path network plan.

Provision of support for the management of the road network of the City of
Cusco: (i) provision of support to CPM’s infrastructure office to strengthen its
capacity to prepare a urban road network maintenance management strategy,
including annual plans (aimed at enhancing the condition of the existing
roadways), and their budgets and to implement said plans based on results; and
(ii) provision of support to CPM on transport infrastructure works in the greater
metropolitan area of the CPM, including the provision of software and hardware
to enhance management capacities and to better control the condition of the
roadways and to monitor the state of the road network.

Component 3: Institutional Strengthening and Monitoring and __Evaluation
(Capacitacién del Personal, Contratacién de Consultores, Monitoreo y Sistematizacion)

(a)

(b)

Strengthening of the institutional capacity of PER Plan COPESCO in order to
enhance its institutional capabilities required for the successful implementation
of Project activities, including Project technical support on procurement,
safeguards, and financial management requirements (including audits).

Provision of support for the carrying out of monitoring activities as well as mid-
term and impact evaluation surveys in order to evaluate the Project’s impacts,
including social impacts and livelihood improvements for low-income groups,
women, the disabled and other vulnerable segments of society.

Component 4: Project Management (Gestidn y Administraci6n del Programa)

Strengthening of the institutional capacity of PER Plan COPESCO for the
oversight and supervision of Project activities, through the provision of goods,
consultants’ services and operating costs.
SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Section I. Implementation Arrangements

A. Subsidiary Agreement

l. To facilitate the carrying out of the Project by the Regional Government of
Cusco, the Borrower shall on-lend the proceeds of the Loan to the Regional
Government of Cusco under a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and the Regional Government of Cusco, under terms and
conditions approved by the Bank (“Resources Transfer Agreement”); which shall
include, inter alia:

(a) the roles and responsibilities of the Regional Government of Cusco,
acting through PER Plan COPESCO, with regard to the implementation
of the Project;

(b) the obligation of the Regional Government of Cusco, acting through PER
Plan COPESCO, to carry out the Project in accordance with the
Safeguard Documents; and

(c) the obligation of the Regional Government of Cusco, acting through PER
Plan COPESCO, to comply with the pertinent obligations, requirements,
procedures, criteria and standards set forth in the General Conditions,
including, inter alia, the obligation to prepare Financial Statements and
make them publicly available, the Procurement Guidelines, the
Consultants Guidelines, the Anti-Corruption Guidelines and the Project
Operations Manual.

2. The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the
Resource Transfer Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate,
waive, terminate or fail to enforce the Resource Transfer Agreement or any of its
provisions.

3. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event of a conflict between the provisions
of the foregoing Resource Transfer Agreement and those of this Agreement
(including the additional instructions referred to in Section IV.A.1 of this
Schedule), the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.
Institutional Arrangements

The Borrower shall cause the Regional Government of Cusco, acting through
PER Plan COPESCO, to carry out the Project using its existing structure and
shall have dedicated staff assigned to coordinate and manage Project
implementation, with experience and qualifications defined in the Project
Operations Manual, and vested with financial resources, functions and
competencies required for the carrying out of the day-to-day implementation of
Project activities, including the inter-institutional coordination with CPM and
other line agencies, the carrying out of planning, procurement, financial
management, monitoring and reporting activities, as well as the implementation
of, and monitoring and enforcement of contractors’ compliance with, the
provisions of the Safeguard Documents.

The Borrower shall cause the Regional Government of Cusco, acting through
PER Plan COPESCO, and for the purposes of assisting in the carrying out of the
Project and to formalize their respective responsibilities under the Project to:

(a) not later than 30 days after the Effectiveness Date, enter into an agreement
with CPM under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank
(“Implementation Agreement”); and

(b) exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the Implementation
Agreement and in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower
and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend,
abrogate, waive, or fail to enforce the Implementation Agreement or any
of its provisions, whether in whole or in part.

The Borrower, not later than 30 days after the Effectiveness Date, shall cause the
Regional Government of Cusco, acting through PER Plan COPESCO, to update,
in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, the existing Delegation Agreement signed
between the Regional Government of Cusco and the CPM.

Operations Manual

The Borrower shall cause the Regional Government of Cusco, acting through
PER Plan COPESCO, to:

(a) implement the Project in accordance with the Project Operations Manual;
provided however that in the event of conflict between the provisions of
said manual and those of this Agreement, the provisions of this
Agreement shall prevail; and

-9-
(b) refrain from amending, suspending, waiving, and/or voiding any
provision of the Project Operations Manual, whether in whole or in part,
without the prior written concurrence of the Bank.

Anti-Corruption

The Borrower shall ensure, and cause the Regional Government of Cusco, acting
through PER Plan COPESCO to ensure, that the Project is carried out in
accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.

Safeguards

The Borrower shall cause the Regional Government of Cusco, acting through
PER Plan COPESCO, to:

(a) carry out the Project in accordance/compliance with the Environmental
and Social Impact Assessment (“ESIA”); and the Resettlement Plan; and

(b) refrain from taking any action which would prevent or interfere with the
implementation of the Safeguard Documents, including any amendment,
suspension, waiver, and/or voidance of any provision of the Safeguard
Documents, whether in whole or in part, without the prior written
concurrence of the Bank.

After the completion of the final detailed designs mentioned in Component | (a)
(i) of the Project, but prior to the commencement of the civil works under
Component | (a) (ii) of the Project, the Borrower shall cause the Regional
Government of Cusco, acting through PER Plan COPESCO, to ensure that:

(a) all necessary governmental permits and clearances for such civil works,
shall have been obtained from the competent governmental authority/ies
and submitted to the Bank;

(b) if applicable, that the Safeguard Documents have been revised, updated
and disclosed in a manner satisfactory to the Bank;

(c) all resettlement measures set forth in the applicable Safeguard
Documents for such civil works shall have been fully executed, including
the full payment of compensation prior to displacement and/or the
provision of relocation assistance to all Displaced Persons; and

(d) all land acquisition required for such civil works shall have been
concluded and such land shall be free of encumbrances and ready to be
handed over to the winning bidder, all in a manner acceptable to the
Bank.

-10-
The Borrower shall cause the Regional Government of Cusco (acting through
PER Plan COPESCO) to ensure that each contract for civil works under the
Project includes the obligation of the relevant contractor to comply with the
relevant Safeguard Documents applicable to such civil works
commissioned/awarded pursuant to said contract.

Without limitation to Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall cause
the Regional Government of Cusco (acting through PER Plan COPESCO) to
ensure that the Operational Costs expenditures for the Project are financed
exclusively out of the Regional Government of Cusco’s own resources, and, to
this end, shall cause the Regional Government of Cusco to provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, services, facilities and other resources required therefor.

For purposes of Component 2 of the Project, the Borrower shall cause the
Regional Government of Cusco (acting through PER Plan COPESCO) to ensure
that the terms of reference of any consultancy contract entered under such
Component shall be satisfactory to the Bank, following its review thereof, and to
that end, such terms of reference shall duly incorporate the requirement of the
Bank’s Safeguards Policies then in force, as applied to the advice conveyed
through such technical assistance.

Section II, Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation

A.

I.

Project Reports

The Borrower shall cause the Regional Government of Cusco, acting through
PER Plan COPESCO, to monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and
prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the
General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in the Project
Operations Manual. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar
semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end
of the period covered by such report.

The Borrower shall cause the Regional Government of Cusco, acting through
PER Plan COPESCO, to prepare and furnish to the Bank by no later than six
months after the Closing Date, the report on the execution of the Project set forth
in Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions.

Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
The Borrower shall maintain, and cause the Regional Government of Cusco
(acting through PER Plan COPESCO) to maintain, a financial management

system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.

-||-
2. Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
cause the Regional Government of Cusco (acting through PER Plan COPESCO)
to prepare and furnish to the Bank, as part of each Project Report, interim
financial reports for the Project covering the pertinent calendar semester, in form
and substance satisfactory to the Bank.

3, The Borrower shall cause the Regional Government of Cusco (acting through
PER Plan COPESCO) to have the Financial Statements of the Project, audited in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.
Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of
the Borrower and the Regional Government of Cusco, commencing with the
fiscal year in which the first withdrawal was made. The audited Financial
Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six
months after the end of such period.

4, For purposes of paragraph 3 above, the Borrower shall, no later than six months
of the Effective Date, select and contract the services of a qualified and
experienced auditor, acceptable to the Bank, under terms of reference satisfactory
to the Bank, to serve as independent external auditor for a period of at least three
consecutive years.

Section ITI. Procurement
A. General

1. Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.

2. Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.

3. Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in Sections I and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections IJ, III, IV and V of the Consultant
Guidelines, as the case may be.

-|2-
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services

International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.

Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding,
may be used for procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for
those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan:

  

Procurement Methods:

 
  
   
 

  

(a) Limited International Bidding.

(b) National Competitive Bidding subject to the additional provisions set
forth in paragraph 3 below.

 
    

(c) Shopping.
(d) Direct Contracting.

  

Special Provisions for National Competitive Bidding. In addition and without
limitation or restriction to any other provisions set forth in this Section or the
Procurement Guidelines, the following provisions shall govern the procurement
of goods, works and non-consulting services with National Competitive Bidding
procedures under this Section:

(a) foreign bidders shall not be required to be locally registered as a
condition of participation in the bidding selection process;

(b) no reference value (precio referencial) shall be required for publication
in the bidding documents or used for the purpose of bid evaluation;

(c) award of contracts shall be based exclusively on price and, whenever
appropriate, shall take into account factors that can be quantified
objectively, and the procedure for such quantification shall be disclosed
in the invitation to bid;

(d) foreign bidders shall be allowed to participate in National Competitive
Biddings without restriction, and shall not be subject to any unjustified
requirement which will affect their ability to bid such as, but not limited
to, the requirement to authenticate (/egalizar) their bidding documents or
any document related to such bidding documents with either Peruvian

-|3-
Consulates, the Borrower’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs, or any Peruvian
authorities as a prerequisite of bidding; and

(e) the Regional Government of Cusco, acting through PER Plan
COPESCO, shall use standard bidding documents and standard
evaluation formats; all satisfactory to the Bank.

Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph

2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.

Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants’ services for those contracts which are specified in
the Procurement Plan:

   

Procurement Methods:

     

(a) Quality-based Selection.

     

(b) Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications.

      
    
 
        
   

(c) Selection under a Fixed Budget.
(d) Least Cost Selection.
(e) Single-source Selection of consulting firms.

(f) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines
for the Selection of Individual Consultants.

(g) Single-source procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants.

In addition and without limitation or restriction to any other provisions set forth
in this Section or the Consultant Guidelines, the following provisions shall
govern all procurement of consultants’ services:

(a) foreign consultants shall not be required to be locally registered as a
condition of participation in the selection process,

(b) foreign consultants shall not be required to authenticate (/egalizar) any
documentation related to their participation in the selection process with
Peruvian Consulates, the Borrower’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs, or any
Peruvian authorities as a condition of participation in said selection
process;

-14-
(c) the Regional Government of Cusco, acting through PER Plan
COPESCO, shall use standard requests for proposals and standard
evaluation formats, all satisfactory to the Bank;

(d) foreign consultants, either individuals or firms, shall not be required to
pay fees to the Peruvian Consultants’ Association that are different from
those required for Peruvian consultants; and

(e) no individual consultant financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall,
at the time he or she is carrying out his or her contractual obligations as
consultant, hold civil service office or any other position in any agency
or instrumentality of the Borrower, nor shall such consultant have any
right to re-entry into any such office or position upon the conclusion of
his or her consulting services.

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the

Bank’s Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.

Section IV. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

A.

I.

 

General

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.

The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.

-15-
   

   
    

  

Amount of the Loan Percentage of

 

  
  
 
    
     
       
  

 
    

  
  

   
 
 
   

Allocated Expenditures to be
(expressed in USD) financed
Goods, works, non-
consulting services,
consultants’ services, 116,000,000 p to 100%
Training and Workshops
under the Project.
Land acquisition and
compensation for land
acquisition related to the
implementation of the 4,000,000 up to 100%

Resettlement Plan under
Component 1(d) of the
Project.

TOTAL AMOUNT

 
  
 

  
  

120,000,000

B. Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

1. Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made: (a) from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of
the Front-end Fee; and (b) for payments made prior to this Agreement.

2. The Closing Date is June 30, 2019.

-16-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule

1. The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date (“Installment Share”). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.

   

   
 

Installment Share

(Expressed as a Percentage)

Principal Payment Date

    

 

    

 
 
  

On each March 15 and September 15
Beginning on March 15, 2022
through March 15, 2035

On September 15, 2035

2. If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:

  
    

(a) To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1
of this Schedule.

(b) Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph | of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”)
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies. |

-|7-
(a) Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.

(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs | and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (a) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (b) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.

If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.

-18-
APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

I,

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.

“Bank’s Safeguards Policies” means the Bank’s operational policies and
procedures, set forth in the Bank’s operational manual and identified as OP/BP
4.01, 4.04, 4.09, 4.10. 4.11, 4.12, 4.36, 4.37, 7.50 and 7.60, as said manual is
published under www. WorldBank.org/opmanual.

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.

“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers” dated January 2011.

“Cusco Provincial Municipality or CPM” means one of the municipalities
comprising the autonomous region of Cusco, or any successor thereto.

“Delegation Agreement” means the Convenio No. 00015 para la Formulacion y
Ejecucién del Proyecto de Inversién Publica de Competencia Municipal
Exclusiva, the agreement entered into between the Regional Government of
Cusco and the CMP on June 21, 2012, as amended, and referred to in Section
I.B.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Displaced Persons” means persons who, on account of the execution of the
Project, have experienced or would experience direct economic and social
impacts caused by: (a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation
or loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (111) loss of income
sources or means of livelihood, whether or not such persons must move to
another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated
parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impact on the livelihoods of such
persons.

“Environmental and Social Impact Assessments” and the acronym “ESIA” mean,
collectively, the social and environmental impact assessments dated December 3,
2013. (acceptable to the Bank), and published on the web page
www.copesco.gob.pe prepared by PER Plan COPESCO, which assessments
evaluate the likely positive and negative environmental and social impact of
Project activities and include an environmental and social management plan; as

-19-
10.

15.

the same may be revised, updated or supplemented from time to time with the
prior written concurrence of the Bank.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated March 12, 2012.

“Implementation Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section 1.B.2 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“MEE” means the Ministry of Economy and Finance of the Borrower, or any
successor thereto.

“PER Plan COPESCO” means the special commission established by the
Borrower pursuant to Supreme Decree No. 001-69-IC/DS, dated April 25, 1969,
under the auspices of the Borrower’s Ministry of Industry and Tourism, for the
supervision of the touristic and cultural plan PERU-UNESCO, and subsequently
transferred to the Region of Cusco pursuant to the Borrower’s Supreme Decree
No. 074-2004-PCM of October 24, 2004.

“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers” dated January 2011.

“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project,
dated December 3, 2013 in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and
paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from
time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.

“Project Operations Manual” means the manual to be adopted by PER Plan
COPESCO, pursuant to Section I.C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement setting forth
the guidelines and procedures for the implementation of the Project, including: (1)
the allocation of functions, powers, and responsibilities of PER Plan COPESCO;
(ii) the financial management arrangements, activity planning and budgetary
procedures; (iii) the mechanism to ensure compliance with procurement
requirement and the Safeguards Documents; (iv) guidelines and procedures to be
followed in connection with the findings of cultural property; and (v) the
monitoring and evaluation and reporting requirements/framework for Project
activities; as said manual may be amended from time to time subject to the prior
concurrence of the Bank.

“Regional Government of Cusco” means the executive branch of the autonomous

region of Cusco, as established/acknowledge under Article 2 of Law 27867 of
November 16, 2002 as amended, or any successor thereto.

-20-
19.

20.

21.

“Resettlement Plan” means Plan de Compensacién y Reasentamiento
Involuntario — (PACRI), the plan dated December 4, 2013 prepared and adopted
by PER Plan COPESCO and acceptable to Bank, published in the web site
www.copesco.gob.pe, in respect of the proposed activities under Component | of
the Project, defining protocols and procedures to ensure the payment of
compensation at full replacement cost, and/or the provision of resettlement,
assistance to Displaced Persons; as such plan may be revised, updated or
supplemented, from time to time, subject to the prior written concurrence of the
Bank.

“Resources Transfer Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section
I.A.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Safeguard Documents” means, collectively, the Resettlement Plan and the
ESIA.

“Training and Workshops” means the reasonable expenditures (other than
consultants’ and non-consulting services) incurred by PER Plan COPESCO, for
the carrying out of training activities, and/or study tours, conferences and
workshops conducted and/or attended by PER Plan COPESCO’s staff and/or the
Project’s stakeholders, including reasonable costs for the purchase and
printing/publication of materials, rental of training facilities, course/registration
fees, travel, subsistence, and per diem for trainers and trainees.

“World Heritage Site” means a place that is listed by the United Nations
Education, Scientific and Cultural Organization -UNESCO- as of special cultural
or physical significance and with importance to the common heritage of
humanity.

-2|-
