 

Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

OFFICIAL |
| DOCUMENTS ;

nl an A Aaa, . MM’ ~

2a CRP UNCOIMNa EEE Ee eee tO Het Fy BNE

 

 

LOAN NUMBER 8330-IN

maa et MM HR egg le aS SS Pe Me SE SA RSE SE ROME” IEE I INR EHO RN

Loan Agreement

(Technology Center Systems Program)
between
INDIA
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
‘AND DEVELOPMENT

SEMESTER IPEDE REE

Dated Nevember 10 ,2014

Et.
=
=:
a
Re
=
re
ee
ee
%,

 

 

 

E aang ebeiard WARE SES wi Abeta Ces tee is seme he
LOAN NUMBER 8330-IN
LOAN AGREEMENT

Agreement dated \Novenbet io, 2014, between INDIA (“Borrower”) and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(“Bank”). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:

1.01.

1.02.

2.01.

2.02.

2.03.

2.04.

2.05.

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.

ARTICLE II — LOAN

The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of two hundred million United States
Dollars, (USD 200,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07
of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”).

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with

Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.

The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article ITV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by
the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.

The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year.
2.06.

2.07.

3.01.

3.02.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

(a)

(b)

(c)

The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order.to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.

Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.

Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE Il — PROJECT

The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through the ODC in accordance
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. -

Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV — TERMINATION

4.01. The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.

ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

5.01. The Borrower’s Representative is any of the following officials, acting severally:

’ Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary, or

Under Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs in the Borrower’s
Ministry of Finance.

5.02. The Borrower’s Address ts:

Secretary

Department of Economic Affairs
Ministry of Finance
Government of India

North Block

New Delhi 110001, India

Facsimile:
91-11-23092039
5.03. The Bank’s Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W. ,

Washington, D.C, 20433
United States of America

Cable address: Telex: Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 248423(MC)) or 1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 64145(MCI) .

 
AGREED at New” Del L: _, India, as of the day and year first above written.

od

INDIA

By
Authorized Representative

Name: v=" _TARUN BATAS
Title: West Seere TARY Cm )

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

Authorized Representative
Name: ONNo “Rul
Title: CmumtTRy ~DRECTOR Twp A
>-

By
SCHEDULE 1

Project Description

The objective of the Project is to enhance the productivity of MSMEs by
improving their access to technology and business advisory services, as well as skilled
workers, through systems of financially sustainable Technology Centers.

The Project consists of the following parts:

Component 1:

Technical Assistance to Existing and New Technology Centers

Providing technical assistance to industry-specific existing or new Technology
Centers, and/or clusters thereof, through:

(a)

(b)

(c)

Technology Partners in order to: (i) identify existing or expected new
technologies suitable for research, development and dissemination; (ii)
develop, test and patent new products; (iii) carry out demand analyses,
skill gap assessments and response strategies therefor, including
developing and implementing new training curricula/modules and
certification schemes; (iv) identify technology solutions (i.e. software
and equipment) required to upgrade the Technology Centers
functionalities; and (v) help Technology Centers to deliver their services
to clients, including benchmarking their client’s performance against
international industry standards;

Cluster Network Managers in order to: (i) carry out managerial and
technical skill needs assessments of MSMEs or clusters thereof, and
design their respective strategy plans for the development/improvement
of MSMEs’ institutional capabilities; (ii) provide advisory services to
MSMEs clusters through the identification of common opportunities (e.g.
markets, technology innovation/upgrading, commercial synergies, etc.)
and challenges (e.g. infrastructure, access to finance, etc.), and the
development of coordinated response strategies, including policy
advocacy; and (iii) develop linkages/synergies across Technology
Centers, including the establishment of partnerships with vocational
training providers, research institutes and leading manufacturers, and the
leveraging of other governmental programs for MSMEs; and

an ITP Service Provider, in order to establish an IT platform including a
national portal for MSMEs providing for, inter alia, on-line registration
of entrepreneurial memoranda, e-commerce/e-biz platforms,
management information and reporting systems and skills development
training modules.

 
~ Component 2: Investments to Develop New, and Upgrade Existing, Technology Centers

Establishing approximately fifteen (15) new Technology Centers and upgrading
the eighteen (18) existing ones, including construction and/or refurbishment of
physical facilities, as well as the provision of software, machinery, equipment,
operating expenses during operationalization phase of new Technology Centers,
and contingencies.

Component 3: Technical Assistance to the MoMSME for Program Implementation and

Monitoring and Evaluation

Strengthening MoMSME’s institutional capacity to implement the Project,
through:

(a) the engagement of an Implementation Partner to assist the ODC and the
SDPMT with its implementation responsibilities;

(b) the establishment of an SDPMT for the carrying out/coordination of day-
to-day execution of Project activities, including compliance with the
fiduciary and safeguards requirements;

(c) the provision of technical assistance and training to personnel of
MoMSME for designing and implementing ancillary interventions aimed
at providing incentives/support for the development of MSMEs; and

(d) the carrying out of independent surveys of customers and stakeholders to
assess the transformative impact of Project activities.
 

SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Section I. Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional Arrangements
1. The Borrower shall vest the responsibility for Project implementation in its ODC

and to this end, shall:

(a)

(b)

(c)

maintain throughout the period of Project implementation, a program
steering committee (the “PSC”): (i) headed by the Secretary of
MoMSME and with a composition/membership acceptable to the Bank,
including members of the academia, research institutes, and leading
industry associations, as well as ODC’s Chief Vigilance Officer and
Public Information Officer, as observers; and (ii) vested with such
powers, functions and competencies, acceptable to the Bank, as shall be
required to exercise policy guidance for, and general oversight of, the
implementation of Project activities;

establish within ODC, by no later than six (6) month after the Effective
Date, and thereafter maintain throughout the period of Project
implementation, an implementation unit comprised of a Program
Coordinator supported by a small dedicated program management team,
with experience and qualified staff, in numbers and under terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank (the “SDPMT”), which unit shall be
vested with such powers, financial resources, functions and
competencies, acceptable to the Bank, as shall be required for it to carry
out the day-to-day implementation of Project activities, including the
inter-institutional coordination with other line agencies and departments

(including the Technology Centers), the carrying out of procurement, .

financial management, monitoring and reporting activities, the screening
of Project activities pursuant to the EMF and SMF, as well as the
preparation of any required ESMMPs and RAPs, as the case may be, and
the monitoring and enforcement of contractors’ implementation
of/compliance with the respective Safeguard Documents;

maintain, throughout the period of implementation of the Project, the
services of a project management consulting firm (the “Implementation
Partner”) with qualification and experience and under terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank, in order to assist the SDPMT with Project
planning and implementation, including, inter alia: (i) providing
guidance and recommendation on technical and policy matters; (ii)
preparing bidding documents and subsequent changes/variations thereof:

-7-
(d)

(e)

(iii) evaluating technical and financial proposals; (iv) handling
contractual matters and procurement disputes, and establishing an
automated contract management system; (v) supporting ODC and the
Technology Centers in the carrying out of their financial management
duties/functions (vi) providing training, guidance and recommendations
to Technology Centers as per the SDPMT’s instructions; (vii) monitoring
the Technology Centers’ and contractors’ compliance with the
Safeguards Documents; and (viii) preparing the Project Reports and the
IFRs;

establish by no later than three (3) months after the Effective Date, and
thereafter maintain throughout the period of Project implementation, a
program advisory committee (“PAC”) which: (i) shall be comprised of
representatives of industries, academia and industry associations, in a
manner and substance satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) shall advise the
PSC on the design and evaluation of the execution phases of the Project
and the determination of strategic choices for investment priorities; and

establish by no later than six (6) months after the Effective Date, and
thereafter maintain throughout the period of Project implementation, at
least three (3) joint working groups (“JWGs”) covering the tooling,
ESDM (i.e. electronics, systems design and manufacturing) and
fragrance and flavor sectors which: (i) shall be comprised of
representatives of domain-specific industry leaders, academia,
government institution and business associations, in a manner and
substance satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) shall assist the PSC, the
SDPMT and the Implementation Partner to assess the impact of Project
activities in the respective industry sector and its stakeholders, and
provide technical advice for the design of Project activities in their areas
of domain-expertise.

Program Implementation Manual and Anti-Corruption Guidelines

The Borrower shall implement, and/or cause the Technology Centers to
implement, the Project in accordance with: (i) the implementation arrangements
set forth in the Program Implementation Manual (“PIM”); provided however that
in the event of conflict between the provisions of said manual, on the one hand,
and those of this Agreement, on the other hand, the provisions of this Agreement
shall prevail; and (11) the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.

The Borrower shall refrain, and/or cause the Technology Centers to refrain, from
amending, suspending, waiving and/or voiding any provisions of the PIM,
whether in whole or in part, without the prior written concurrence of the Bank.
 

Technology Centers

For purpose of Component 2 of the Project, the ODC shall invite the Technology
Centers to submit proposals for a plan of activities in accordance with the
procedural requirement set forth in the PIM.

The SDPMT shall screen the proposals submitted pursuant to paragraph {| and
determine their eligibility for financing under the Project, in accordance with
criteria set forth in the PIM.

Upon ODC’s revision and approval of a Technology Center’s proposal, and prior
to the provision of any advances to the said Technology Center for the
implementation of such activities, the ODC, shall enter into a written undertaking
with the respective Technology Center (the “Undertaking”), in accordance with
the terms and requirements set forth in the PIM, whereby the Technology Center:

(a) commits to the objective of the Project; and undertakes to conduct its
operation and affairs in accordance with sound technical, financial,
managerial, social and environmental, and labor standards;

(b) agrees with the ODC on the goods, works and services to be committed
by ODC as in-kind assistance and the counterpart resources contributed
by the Technology Center for the carrying out of the approved proposal;

(c) abides by and agrees to implement the approved proposal and respective
plan of activities in compliance with the Anti-corruption Guidelines and
the PIM, and, if so required by the screening of the proposed activities,
the respective Safeguard Documents that the Technology Center shall
have prepared and disclosed prior to commencing any activities under
the Project;

(d) represents that it has established, and agrees to maintain, operational
policies and procedures that would allow the ODC, the Bank and/or third
party monitoring agents appointed by them, to carry out supervision and
monitoring of the Technology Center’s execution of the approved plan of
activities;

(e) agrees to: (1) prepare and furnish to the ODC, and/or the Bank, all such
information that the ODC, and/or the Bank, shall reasonably request in
relation to the approved plan of activities; and (ii) accept random and/or
unannounced physical or documentary inspections by the ODC and/or
the Bank; and
(f) acknowledges ODC’s prerogative to suspend or terminate its in-kind
assistance for the approved plan of activities:
(i) ° upon any failure of the Technology Center to comply with its
obligations under the Undertaking, or upon notice served by the
Bank to ODC of the Bank’s intention to exercise any of the
remedies set forth in Sections 7.02; 7.03 and 7.06 of the General
Conditions; or |
(ii) upon the Bank’s declaring the Technology Center ineligible
under the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
Safeguards .

The ODC shall, and shall cause the Technology Centers, to:

(a)

(b)

carry out the Project in accordance with the EMF, the SMF and,
whenever required, the Technology Center-specific ESMMPs and RAPs
to be prepared pursuant to paragraph 2 of this sub-section in accordance
with the objectives, policies, procedures, time schedules, compensation
arrangements and other provisions set forth in the EMF and SMF
(together, the “Safeguard Documents”), in each case in a manner and in
substance satisfactory to the Bank; and

refrain from taking any action which would prevent or interfere with the
implementation of the Safeguard Documents, including any amendment,
suspension, waiver, and/or voidance of any provision of the Safeguard
Documents, whether in whole or in part, without the prior written
concurrence of the Bank.

With respect to any civil works to be carried out under Component 2 of the
Project, the ODC shall refrain from awarding any contract to contractors until
and unless:

(a)

(b)

(c)

the proposed activities have been screened by SDPMT and the
Implementation Partner, in accordance with the guidelines, standards and
procedures set forth in the EMF and SMF;

all of the respective ESMMP(s), and/or RAP(s) as may be required for
such civil works pursuant to the EMF and SMF has/have been prepared;
and

the foregoing Safeguard Documents have been publicly disclosed by
MoMSME/ODC, and/or the respective Technology Center, in local

-10-
language(s) at the relevant project’s sites, thirty (30) days prior to the
award of the contract for the related works.

The ODC shall ensure that, prior to commencing any civil works under the
Project: (a) all necessary governmental permits and clearances for such civil
works shall have been obtained from the competent governmental authority/ies;
(b) all pre-construction conditions imposed by the governmental authority/ies
under such permit(s) or clearance(s) shall have been complied with/fulfilled; and
(c) the resettlement compensation and the resettlement assistance, set forth in the
RAP prepared for such civil works shall have been fully paid/carried out prior to
taking any action that would cause any people to become a Displaced Persons, as
per the entitlements provided in the SMF and/or RAP.

The ODC shall ‘ensure that each contract for civil works under the Project
includes the obligation of the relevant contractor to comply with the relevant
Safeguard Documents applicable to such civil works commisstoned/awarded
pursuant to said contract.

The ODC shall, and/or shall cause the Technology Centers to maintain
monitoring and evaluation protocols and record keeping procedures acceptable to
the Bank and adequate to enable the MoMSME, the Technology Centers and the
Bank to supervise and assess, on an on-going basis, the implementation
of/compliance with the Safeguards Documents, as well as the achievement of the
objectives thereof.

The ODC shall ensure that the following Project expenditures are financed
exclusively out of the Borrower’s or the Technology Centers’ own resources;
and, to this end, shall provide or cause the Technology Centers to provide, as
promptly as needed, the resources required therefor, namely:

(a) all land acquisition required for the purpose of carrying out Project
activities; and

(b) any compensation, resettlement and rehabilitation payment to Displaced
Persons in accordance with the provisions of the SMF and the RAPs.

In the event of any conflict between the provisions of any of the EMF, the SMF,

ESMMPs and/or RAPs, on the one hand, and the provisions of this Agreement,
on the other hand, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.

-ll-
*

Section IE. Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

A.

Project Reports

The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Bank and reflected in
the PIM. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar quarter,
and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end —
of the period covered by such report.

Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits

The Borrower shall maintain, and/or cause to maintain, a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.

Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of
each calendar quarter, interim financial reports for the Project covering the
quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.

The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements, and cause the new Technology
Centers as well as those Technology Center receiving grant-in-aid from the
Borrower to have their respective Financial Statements, audited in accordance
with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of
the Financial Statements shal] cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the
Borrower, as the case may be, commencing with the fiscal year in which the first
withdrawal was made under the Project. The audited Financial Statements for
each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after
the end of such period.

Section ITI. Procurement

A.

General

Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. Ail goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.

Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with

-]2-
|

 

the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.

Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, Il], IV and V of the Consultant
Guidelines, as the case may be.

Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services

International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.

Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services.
The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be —
used for procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for those
contracts specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) Limited International Bidding;
(b) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional provisions set forth in
the Procurement Plan; (c) Shopping; (d) procurement under Framework
Agreements in accordance with procedures which have been found acceptable to
the Bank; (e) Direct Contracting; and (f) Foree Account.

Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services

Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.

Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following
methods, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants’ services for those contracts which are specified in
the Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based Selection; (b) Selection under a Fixed
Budget; (c) Least Cost Selection; (d) Selection based on Consultants’
Qualifications; (e) Single-source Selection of consulting firms; (f) Procedures set
forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of
Individual Consultants; and (g) Single-source procedures for the Selection of
Individual Consultants.

-13.-
D. Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank’s Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.

Section IV. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. General

l. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.

2. The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.

(1) Goods, works, non-consulting
services, consultants’ services, 199,500,000 80%
Training for the Project

Amount payable
pursuant to Section 2.03
of this Agreement in
accordance with Section
2.07 (b) of the General
Conditions
Amount due pursuant to
Section 2.07(c) of this
Agreement

  
  
   
  

     
      
 
    

Percentage of
Expenditures to be
Financed
(inclusive of Taxes)

   
   
  

Amount of the Loan
Allocated
(expressed in USD)

    
  
  

  
 
 

  

(2) Front-end Fee 500,000

         
    

(3) Interest Rate Cap or interest
Rate Collar premium

TOTAL AMOUNT

    
  

   
 
 

200,000,000

     

-|4-
B. Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

l. Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed USD 40,000,000
equivalent may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after May
| . 17, 2013, for Eligible Expenditures.

° 2. The Closing Date is June 30, 2020.

c

3
J

-15-

 
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule

1. The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date (“Installment Share”). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency

    
 

    
  
 

  
 

On each February [5 and August 15
On February 15, 2032 Po 8S%

Beginning August 15, 2019
2. If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal

Conversion applies.
Installment Share
Principal Payment Date (Expressed as a Percentage)
through August 15, 2031 3.85%
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:

(a) To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph |
of this Schedule.

{b) Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph | of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”)
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.

-16-
 

 

(a) Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated
as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.

(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs | and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.

If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.

.17-
APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

1.

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.

“Cluster Network Managers” means firms competitively selected and retained by
MoMSME in order to support the Technology Centers to help them identify the
needs of the MSMEs in their ecosystems, develop business advisory services and
linkages with related institutions.

“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans‘and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers” dated January 2011.

“Displaced Persons” means persons who, on account of the execution of the
Project, have experienced or would experience direct economic and social
impacts caused by: (a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation
or loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iit) loss of income
sources or means of livelihood, whether or not such persons must move to
another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated
parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impact on the livelihoods of such
persons,

“EMF” mean the Borrower’s environmental management framework, dated
December 10, 2013, setting forth the guiding principles, acceptable standards and
procedures for: (a) the screening of Project activities and the identification of any
adverse or positive environmental impacts caused, or expected to be caused, on
account of their implementation; and (b) the preparation of their prescribed
ESMMPs; as such framework may be revised, updated or supplemented from
time to time with the prior written concurrence of the Bank.

“ESMMDP” means each of: the Technology Center-specific environmental and
social management/mitigation plans to be prepared pursuant to Section I.D.2 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, in accordance with the provisions of the EMF
and/or SMF and acceptable to the Bank, in each case setting out mitigation,
enhancement, monitoring and institutional measures, including capacity building
through training, required to: (i) eliminate adverse environmental impacts of
activities to be implemented under the Project; (ii) offset them, or reduce them to

- 18 -
 

ll.

acceptable levels; (iii) enhance any positive impacts thereof; (iv) ensure
compliance with Borrower’s statutory environmental requirement; (v) ensure
meaningful consultation with, and informed participation of, Tribal Groups and
their communities in the design and implementation of the Project activities; and
(vi) ensure fair participation of said Tribal Groups and/or communities in the
benefits of the Project, in a culturally appropriate and socially inclusive manner,
as such plan may be revised, updated or supplemented, from time to time in
accordance with the provisions of the EMF and SMF. ,

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated March 12, 2012.

“IFR” means the interim financial reports referred to in Section II.B.2 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Implementation Partner” means the project management consulting firm
competitively selected and retained by MoMSME to assist the SDPMT and the
Program Coordinator with the implementation of the Project, and referred to in
Section I.A.i(c) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“ITP Service Provider” means the firm competitively selected and retained by
MoMSME in order to provide comprehensive IT services to all stakeholders of
the Technology Centers.

“JWGs” means the joint working groups to be established by MoMSME, and
referred to in Section I.A.1(e) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“MoMSME” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium
Enterprises, or any successor thereto.

“MSMEs” means collectively the micro, small and medium enterprises,
comprising commercial entities with a paid-in capital of up to two million United
States Dollars (USD2,000,000).

“ODC” means the Office of the Development Commissioner of MoMSME.

“PAC” means the Project advisory committee to be established by the
MoMSME, and referred to in Section 1.A.1(d) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Program Implementation Manual” and the acronym “PIM” means the manual
dated March 13, 2014, adopted by MoMSME, setting forth guidelines and
procedures for the implementation of the Project, including: (i) the allocation of
functions, powers and responsibilities between the PSC, the SDPMT, the
Implementation Partner, the PAC, the JWGs, the ITP Service Provider, the
Cluster Network Managers, the Technology Centers and the Technology

~19-
18.

19.

20.

21.

22,
23.

24.

Partners; (ii) the financial management and procurement arrangements; (ili) the
eligibility criteria for the selection of proposals submitted by Technology
Centers; and (iv) the monitoring and evaluation framework for Project activities,
as said manual may be amended from time to time with the prior concurrence of
the Bank.

“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers” dated January 2011.

“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project,
dated December 10, 2013 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.

“PSC” means the program steering committee established by MoMSME in order
to provide policy guidance for Project implementation, and referred to in Section
1.A.1(a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“RAP” means each of the resettlement action plans to be prepared pursuant to
Section LD.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, in accordance with the provisions
of the SMF and acceptable to the Bank, in each case identifying Displaced
Persons on account of implementation of Project activities to be carried out by
the respective Technology Centers, and setting forth the terms and conditions for
providing them with resettlement assistance and/or compensation, as well as the
procedures to be applied in the identification, assessment and mitigation of
potential Project related social impacts, including the protocols for consultation,
the processing of complaints and grievance redressal, monitoring and reporting
requirements, and the Displaced Persons’ entitlement schedules; as such plan
may be revised, updated or supplemented, from time to time in accordance with
the provisions of the SMF.

“Safeguard Documents” means collectively, the EMF, the SMF, the ESMMPs
and the RAPs.

“SDPMT” means the small dedicated program management team to be
established by MoMSME pursuant to Section I.A.1(b) of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.

“SMF” means the MoMSME’s social management framework, dated December
10, 2013, setting for the guiding principles, acceptable-standards and procedures
for: (a) the screening of Project activities and the identification of any Displaced —
Persons and or Tribal Groups, on account of their implementation; and (b) the
preparation of their prescribed RAPs and/or ESMMP, as the case may be; as such

_20 -

 
 

25.

26.

27.

28.

29.

framework may be revised, updated or supplemented from time to time with the
prior written concurrence of the Bank.

“Technology Centers” means the autonomous entities, established and operating,
or to be established and operated, under the Borrower’s law, responsible, inter
alia, for providing access to technology and business advisory services to
MSMEs, as well as for providing training services to students and workers.

“Technology Partners” means firms hired competitively in order to provide
technical support to Technology Centers with respect to developing technology
services and technical training courses.

“Training” means the reasonable cost of trainings, seminars, workshops,
conferences and study tours, conducted in the territory of the Borrower and/or
overseas, including: (a) the fees of training institutions and courses; (b) domestic
and international travel costs, lodging costs, and subsistence/per diem allowances
both for trainers and trainees; (c) the rental of training facilities; and (d)
preparation, purchase or reproduction of training materials.

“Tribal Groups” means any distinct, vulnerable, social and cultural group within
the territory of the Borrower, that: (i) self-identifies as such and claims, and is
recognized by others as, having a distinguishable cultural identity; (ii) has
collective attachment to geographically distinct habitats or ancestral territories in
the Project area, and to the natural resources in these habitat and territories; (iii)
has customary cultural, economic, social and political institutions that are
separate from those of the dominant society and culture; and (iv) has an
indigenous language, often different from the official language of the Borrower.

“Undertaking” means each of the written agreements referred to in Section I.C.3
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which MoMSME will provide an in-
kind grant to Technology Centers for the implementation of an approved
proposal of activities/intervention.

-2]-
