Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

 

LOAN NUMBER 8319-CN

Loan Agreement

(Qinghai Xining Urban Transport Project)
between
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated “Claret & 2014
LOAN NUMBER 8319-CN

LOAN AGREEMENT

Agreement dated A4aeets 4, 2014, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF
CHINA (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01. The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

1.02. Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.

ARTICLE II — LOAN

2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred twenty million dollars
($120,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule | to
this Agreement (‘‘Project’’).

2.02. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

2.03. The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.

2.04. The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article TV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.
The Payment Dates are May [5 and November [5 in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

(a)

(b)

(c)

The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iti) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.

Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined
‘n the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.

Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE III — PROJECT

The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this

end, the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project
Implementing Entity in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the

General Conditions and the Project Agreement.

_2-
4.01.

5.02.

Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01! of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV - TERMINATION

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.

ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Finance.
The Borrower’s Address is:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People’s Republic of China
Facsimile: 86-10-6855-1125
The Bank’s Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America

Cable address: Telex: Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 64145(MCIT)
AGREED at Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first above
written. .

PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

By
Authorized Representative

Name: _ Cans Vins saa ng _
Title. “— , One efoe—— Center
CattretterneA Ptpertnert
Ane stro ef Frnance
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

Kn AmW/

Authorized Representative
Name: Lolo, feok lave
Title: Coewing recto, Clune,
SCHEDULE 1

Project Description

The objective of the Project is to enable Xining residents to travel between the
city center and the western part of Xining City in a fast, efficient, and safe manner,
through strategic improvements to Wusixi Road, a major transport and urban
development corridor.

The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A: Urban Roads

Construction of new road sections related to the proposed integrated public
transport corridor on Wusixi Road, in Xichuan District of Xining City, including
underground utilities, such as drainage and sewerage pipes, and environmental
protection measures.

Part B: Public Transport

Improvements of public transport infrastructure, operations, and complementary
facilities on the proposed integrated public transport corridor on Wusixi Road,
including, inter alia: (i) construction of dedicated bus lanes and accessible bus
stops and terminals, and installation and provision of bus priority signals, safe
and accessible pedestrian crossings and paths, bicycle lanes and other non-
motorized transport facilities; (ii) installation and operation of a new bus
dispatching system utilizing intelligent transport systems and advanced public
transport management; (iii) acquisition of new clean, safe, and user-friendly
buses; and (iv) construction of a public transport interchange at the western end
of Wusixi Road and access roads to the interchange, and development of an
advanced management and service system for the interchange.

Part C: Intelligent Traffic Management

Development of an intelligent traffic management system in support of the
proposed integrated public transport corridor on Wusixi Road, including: (1) a
traffic command center; (ii) an area traffic control system; and (iii) equipment for
advanced traffic monitoring, enforcement, and information services.

Part D: Institutional Capacity Building
Improvement of Xining City’s institutional capacity for urban transport planning
and management through the carrying out of: (1) strategic studies in support of

achieving the Project development objectives and Xining City’s development

_5-
goals; (ii) training and knowledge exchange for government officials and
technical staff involved in urban and public transport service planning and
management, and traffic and safety management, (iii) Project management
support, including Project monitoring and evaluation and technical consultancies
for implementation of ICM approach; and (iv) public communication on the
Project, particularly on the ICM approach.
SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Section I. Implementation Arrangements

tO

Financing Arrangements

For the purposes of carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make available
the proceeds of the Loan to the Project Implementing Entity, under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including the following principal terms:

(a) The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars or any other
Currency as the Loan may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion (such principal amount determined on the date, or
respective dates, of withdrawal from the Loan Account) of the value of
the currency or currencies so withdrawn.

(b) The principal amount so made available (including an amount equal to
the fee paid pursuant to Section 2.03 of this Agreement and any premium
for Interest Rate Caps or Interest Rate Collars paid pursuant to Section
2.07(c) of this Agreement and Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions
shall be recovered over a period of thirty (30) years, inclusive of a grace
period of five (5) years.

(c) Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest
applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to the provisions of
Section 2.04 of this Agreement.

The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to: (a) manage,
operate, monitor, transfer and reconcile the proceeds of the Loan made available
to it pursuant to paragraph 1 above in accordance with arrangements and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank; (b) take all required actions, including
provision of timely consents and approvals as may be necessary, to facilitate the
utilization of said Loan proceeds and the implementation of the Project and, to
enable the Project Implementing Entity to comply with its undertakings under the
Project Agreement; and (c) maintain all relevant records and documents related
to the Loan and the Project and provide promptly such documents and records,
including all other information, as may be requested by the Borrower or the Bank
from time to time.
B. Anti-Corruption

The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.

C. Safeguards

The Borrower shall take, and shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to take,
all measures necessary to comply with, or all measures necessary to enable the
Project Implementing Entity to comply with the provisions of Section LC of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement.

Section LL. Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. Project Reports

l. The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to monitor and
evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance
with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of
the indicators set forth in the Results Framework. Each Project Report shall
cover the period of one (1) calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank
not later than March 15 and September 15 in each year.

B. Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits

l. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.

2. Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall

cause the Project Implementing Entity to prepare and furnish to the Bank, not
later than sixty (60) days after the end of each ‘calendar semester, interim
unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the semester, in form and
substance satisfactory to the Bank.

3. The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to have its Financial
Statements audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the
General Conditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period
of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each
such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the
end of such period.
Section IIT. Procurement

ta

oa

{

 

General

Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.

Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.

Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in Sections H and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, II], [IV and V of the Consultant
Guidelines, as the case may be.

Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services

International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.

Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services.

The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be
used for procurement of goods, works, and non-consulting services for those
contracts specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) National Competitive Bidding,
subject to the additional provisions set forth in the box below; (b) Direct
Contracting; and (c) Shopping.

 

 
 
  
    

 
  
 
  
   

The procedures applicable to the procurement of goods, works, and non-
consulting services under contracts awarded on the basis of National
Competitive Bidding (“NCB”) shall be the open tendering procedures set forth
in the Borrower’s Law on Tendering and Bidding promulgated by its Order No.
21 dated August 30, 1999; provided, however, that such procedures shall be

9.
 

subject to the provisions of Section I, Paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of Section III, and

 

Appendix | of the Procurement Guidelines, and the additional provisions in the
following. In the event of a conflict between the Borrower’s procedures and
these NCB Procedure Modifications, the latter shall govern.

(1)

(ii)

(iii)
(iv)

(v)

 

Eligibility to participate in a procurement process and to be awarded a
Bank-financed contract shall be as defined under Section I of the
Procurement Guidelines; accordingly, no bidder or potential bidder
shall be declared ineligible for such contract for reasons other than
those provided in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines. No
restriction based on nationality of bidders and/or origin of goods shall
apply, and foreign bidders shall be allowed to participate in NCB
without application of restrictive conditions.

All invitations to prequalify or bid shall be advertised in a national
newspaper of wide circulation in the Borrower’s country, or on a widely
used website / electronic portal with free national and international
access acceptable to the Bank except for goods or non-consulting
services contracts that are estimated to cost less than $300,000
equivalent each, or works contracts that are estimated to cost less than
$2,000,000 each, which may be advertised in a provincial daily
newspaper. Such advertisement shall be made in sufficient time for
prospective bidders to obtain prequalification or bidding documents and
prepare and submit their responses. In any event, a minimum of thirty
(30) days shall be given to bidders between the date of such
advertisement (or the date of availability of bidding documents,
whichever is later) and the deadline for the submission of bids, and the
advertisement and bidding documents shall specify the deadline for the
submission of bids. In the case of such advertisement on a website /
electronic portal, the notice shall remain readily accessible nationally
and internationally until at least the deadline for the submission of bids.
Potential bidders shall be allowed to inspect and purchase bidding
documents at any time prior to the deadline for the submission of bids.

Standard Bidding Documents acceptable to the Bank shall be used.

Qualification requirements of bidders and the method of evaluating the
qualification of each bidder shall be specified in detail in the bidding
documents.

Prequalification procedures and documents acceptable to the Bank shail
be used for large, complex and/or specialized works. Verification of the
information upon which a bidder was prequalified, including current
commitments, shall be carried out at the time of contract award, along

with the bidder’s capability with respect to personnel and equipment.
- 10- |
cee

(vi)

(vil)

(viii)

(1x)

(x)

(xi)

(x11)

  
 
  
   

All bidders that meet the qualification criteria set out in the pre-
qualification documents shall be allowed to bid, and there shall be no
limit on the number of pre-qualified bidders. Where pre-qualification is
not used, the qualification of the bidder who is recommended for award
of contract shall be assessed by post-qualification, applying the
qualification criteria stated in the bidding documents.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

Registration shall not be used to assess bidders’ qualifications. A
bidder shall not be required to register as a condition for inspecting or
purchasing bidding documents, submitting its bid or receiving contract
award. A bidder determined to be the lowest evaluated responsive
bidder, shall be given reasonable opportunity of registering (if required)
before contract signing without any let or hindrance. Bidding shall not
be restricted to any particular class of contractors, and non-classified
contractors shall also be eligible to bid.

No margins of preference of any sort shall be given to bidders, such as
on the basis of their location, place of incorporation, or affinity with the
geographical area in which the Project activities will take place.

All bidders who are awarded contracts for works and_ single-
responsibility contracts shall be required to provide performance
security in an amount sufficient to protect the Borrower or the Project
Implementing Entity / Entities, as the case may be, in case of breach of
contract by the contractor, and the bidding documents shall specify the
required form and amount of such security and any other potential
damages for such breach.

Bidders shall be allowed to submit bids by mail or in person.

All bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be offered an
opportunity to be present (either in person or through their
representatives) at the time of bid opening, but bidders shall not be
required to be present at the bid opening.

All bid evaluation criteria shall be disclosed in the bidding documents
and quantified in monetary terms or expressed in the form of pass/fail
requirements.

No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price exceeds
any cost estimate or falls outside any margin or bracket of prices or
average bids established by the Borrower or the Project Implementing
Entity / Entities, as the case may be. Rejection of all bids or re-bidding
shall not be allowed solely because the number of bids is less than three
(3), and rejection of all bids or rebidding shall not take place without

-l]-
(xiii)

(xiv)

(xv)

(xvi)

(xvil)

 

the Bank’s prior written agreement.

within two (2) weeks of the Borrower or the Project |

 

Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated responsive
bidder, that is, the bidder who meets the appropriate standards of
capability and resources and whose bid has been determined: (A) to be
substantially responsive to the bidding documents; and (B) to offer the
lowest evaluated cost. The winning bidder shall not be required, as a
condition of award, to undertake responsibilities for work or to assume
other obligations not stipulated in the bidding documents or otherwise
to modify the bid as originally submitted. No negotiations shall be
permitted except with the Bank’s no-objection.

In accordance with the Procurement Guidelines, each bidding document
and contract shall include provisions stating the Bank’s policy to
sanction firms or individuals found to have engaged in fraud and
corruption as set forth in the Procurement Guidelines.

In accordance with the Procurement Guidelines, each bidding document
and contract shall include provisions stating the Bank’s policy with
respect to inspection and audit of accounts, records and other
documents relating to the submission of bids and contract performance.

Government-owned enterprises in the Borrower's country may be
permitted to bid or submit a proposal of goods, works, or non- |
consulting services if they can establish that they: (A) are legally and
financially autonomous; (B) operate under commercial law; and (C) are
not a dependent agency of the agency conducting the procurement.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    

Matters such as subcontracting, joint venture relationships and
assignment of contract shall be handled in accordance with the bidding
documents. .

The results of bid evaluation and contract award shall be published in
the national or provincial press (as provided under paragraph (11) above)
or official gazette or a free and open-access website and shall identify:
(A) the name of each bidder who submitted a bid; (B) bid prices as read
out at bid opening; (C) the name of the bidder, and the evaluated price,
of each bid that was evaluated; (D) the names of bidders whose bids
were either rejected as non-responsive or not meeting qualification
criteria, or not evaluated, with the reasons therefor; and (E) the name of
the winning bidder and the final total contract price, as well as the
duration and summary scope of the contract. Such publication shall be
within two (2) weeks of receiving the Bank’s no-objection to the award
recommendation for contracts subject to the Bank’s prior review, and
mplementin
to

D.

 

Entity’s award decision for contracts subject to the Bank’s post review.
The bidding documents shall disclose the newspaper in which and / or
the electronic means by which the information on contract award will
be published.

—

(xix) The Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity / Entities, as the case
may be, shall have in place an effective and independent protest
mechanism for bidders to protest. The bidding documents shall provide
the professional title and address of the official to whom such protests
should be sent.

 

Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services

 

Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.

Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services. The Procurement Plan.
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used:

     

Procurement Methods
(a)
(b) Selection Based on the Consultants’ Qualifications
(c)
(d)

      
    
 
 

Quality-Based Selection

 

   

     
  

Selection of Individual Consultants

    

Single Source Selection (Firm and Individual)

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank’s Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.

-13-
Section IV. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

to

 

General

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.

The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.

Category Amount of the Loan Percentage of
Allocated Expenditures to
(expressed in USD) be Financed
(inclusive of
___ | ____—‘Taxes)
(1) Works 97,483,000 100%

   
 
  
   
  
    
  
 

(2) Goods 18,412,000 100%

(3) Consultants’ services, 3,805,000 100%

non-consulting services,

Training and Workshops and

Incremental! Operating Costs

(4) Front-end Fee 300,000 Amount payable
pursuant to
Section 2.03 of
this Agreement in
accordance with
Section 2.07 (b)
of the General

  

Conditions _
(5) Interest Rate Cap or 0 Amount due
Interest Rate Collar premium pursuant to

Section 2.07(c) of
this Agreement _

TOTAL AMOUNT 120,000,000 | ee

_14-
i)

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $10,000,000 equivalent
may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after January |,
2014, for all Eligible Expenditures.

The Closing Date is September 30, 2019.

-15-
ty

SCHEDULE 3

Amortization Schedule

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date (“Installment Share”). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date, by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.

Installment Share a

(Expressed as a Percentage)

  
  
  

_ Principal Payment Date

   
   
 

n each May 15 and November [5
Beginning May 15, 2019
through November 15, 2043

O

i a A SARS 8, rst RS

If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:

(a) To the extent that any proceeds of the Ioan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph |
of this Schedule.

(b) Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which ts
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph | of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”)
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any

-16-
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.

(a) Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.

(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs | and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (1) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.

If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.

-|7-
APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

oe)

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and [DA
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.

“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers” dated January 2011.

“Displaced Persons” means persons who, on account of the execution of the
Project, have experienced or would experience direct economic and social
impacts caused by: (a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation
or loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets, or (iii) loss of income
sources or means of livelihood, whether or not such persons must move to
another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated
parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such
persons; and a “Displaced Person” means any of such Displaced Persons.

“Environmental Management Plan” or the acronym “EMP” mean the
Environmental Management Plan dated June 1, 2013, adopted by the Project
Implementing Entity (as hereinafter defined), and any other EMPs to be prepared
by the Project Implementing Entity, which plans set out the environmental
protection measures, including measures for the protection of physical cultural
resources, in respect of the Project, as well as administrative and monitoring
arrangements to ensure the implementation of said plan, as said plan may be
revised from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank, and such
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental thereto.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans” dated March 12, 2012.

“ICM” means integrated corridor management.

“Incremental Operating Costs” means the reasonable expenditures directly
related to the Project incurred by the PMO on account of Project implementation,
management, coordination, and monitoring and evaluation, in respect of travel
costs, office rent and supplies, logistics and translation services, but excluding
salaries and salary supplements of the Borrower’s civil servants.

_18 -
10.

“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers” dated January 2011.

“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project,
dated November 5, 2013 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.

“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and the Project
Implementing Entity of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from
time to time; and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental
to the Project Agreement.

“Project Implementing Entity” means Qinghai Province (as hereinafter defined)
or any successor thereto.

“Project Leading Group” means the Project Leading Group established by the
Project Implementing Entity, in September 2011, to provide overall] leadership,
policy guidance and institutional coordination in Project preparation and
implementation, and any successor thereto, and referred to in Section I.A.1(a) of
the Schedule to the Project Agreement.

“PMO” means the Project Management Office, established at Xining
Construction Commission, in June 2012, to prepare the Project, and manage and
supervise its implementation, and referred to in paragraph Section I. A.1(c) of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement.

“PCO” means the Project Coordination Office, established at Xining
Development and Reform Commission, on June 2012, to coordinate the
preparation and implementation of the Project, and referred to in paragraph
Section [.A.1(b) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.

“Qinghai Province” means the Borrower’s province of Qinghai or any successor
thereto.

“Resettlement Action Plan” or the acronym “RAP” means the Resettlement
Action Plan dated March 1, 2013, and all such RAPs to be prepared by the
Project Implementing Entity consistently with the RPF (as hereafter defined), for
purposes of carrying out the Project, which plans shall set out, inter alia: (a) the
principles and procedures governing the acquisition of land required for the
Project and related facilities, including access roads, construction camps, borrow
pits, spoil disposal sites, resettlement sites and quarries; (b) actions and measures
for the payment of compensation to Displaced Persons and for their resettlement

-19-
20.

21.

22.

and rehabilitation; (c) the criteria and procedures for developing and
implementing actions and measures, satisfactory to the Bank, for mitigating the
adverse social impacts resulting from the implementation of activities in
locations that are not directly identified in the RAP; and (d) reporting and
monitoring arrangements to ensure compliance with said plan, as the same may

be revised from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank; and
such term includes all attachments and annexes supplemental to said plan.

“Resettlement Policy Framework” or the acronym “RPF” means the
Resettlement Policy Framework dated March 1, 2013, prepared and adopted by
the Project Implementing Entity, acceptable to the Bank; said framework setting

out the policies and procedures for the acquisition of land and other assets,

compensation, resettlement and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons, and for the
preparation of Resettlement Action Plans as may be required for Project
activities, as said framework may be revised from time to time with the prior
written concurrence of the Bank; and such term includes all schedules and
agreements supplemental to said framework.

“Results Framework” means the Borrower’s framework, dated November 5,
2013 and agreed with the Bank, setting forth the indicators and targets for
purposes of monitoring and evaluation of the progress of the Project, as the same
may be modified from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank,

and such term includes any annexes, appendices, or schedules thereto.

“Safeguards Instruments” means, collectively, the EMP, the RAP and the RPF,
and such term includes any annexes Or schedules to such instruments.

“Training and Workshops” means the costs of training activities under the
Project, based on annual work plans and budgets approved by the Bank, and
attributable to seminars, workshops, and domestic and overseas study trips, along
with travel and subsistence allowances for training participants, services of
trainers, rental of training facilities, preparation and reproduction of training
materials, and other activities directly related to course preparation and
implementation.

“Wusixi Road” means the Wusixi corridor, going in the east-west direction, in
Xining City (as hereinafter defined).

“Xining City” means the city of Xining in Qinghai Province.

“Xining Municipality” means the municipality of Xining in Qinghai Province.
