Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

a? (~entem Wet: ©

OFFICIAL
| DOCUMENTS ,

ae LOAN NUMBER 8356-JM

 

Loan Agreement

(Jamaica Integrated Community Development Project)
between
JAMAICA
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated_(AU 6 2014
ah eee ae Se

~ ee ee

r ss fe “ay % ‘ "e

2 “yee ’ . :. RS. fb

. . Ba
:
5

«3

oo _ ‘ . *
~ * ‘3 oy . . a [he

‘ wal

LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated Pi | ks, _, 2014, between JAMAICA (“Borrower”) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

(“Bank”). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:

1.01.

1.02.

2.01.

2.02.

2.03.

2.04.

2.05.

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.

ARTICLE II — LOAN

The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of forty-two million Dollars
($42,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to
this Agreement (“Project”).

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.

The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(e) of the
General Conditions.

The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year.
2.06. The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

2.07. (a)

(b)

(C)

The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:

(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an
Approved Currency;

(11) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to:

(A) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or

(B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based
on a Reference Rate and the Variable Spread to a
Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread, or vice versa; or

(C) all of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and

(iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate
applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an
Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or
the Reference Rate.

Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.

Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or

Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the

premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on

behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to

itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance

with Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount
-2-
3.01.

3.02.

4.01.

4.02.

allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE Ill — PROJECT

The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project
Implementing Entity in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and the Project Agreement.

Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:

(a) The Project Implementing Entity’s Charter has been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of the Project
Implementing Entity to perform any of its obligations under the Project
Agreement.

(b) The legislation or regulations of the Borrower and/or the rules or
procedures of the Borrower or Project Implementing Entity, other than
the Project Implementing Entity’s Charter, including the Environmental
Management Framework and the Resettlement Policy Framework, have
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect
materially and adversely, in the opinion of the Bank after consultation
with the Borrower, the implementation of the Project.

(c) The Project Implementing Entity shall have failed to comply with any of
its obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement.

The Additional Events of Acceleration consist of the following:

(a) The event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement
occurs and is continuing for a period of 60 days after notice of the event
has been given by the Bank to the Borrower.

(b) The events specified in Sections 4.01 (a) or (b) of this Agreement occur.

-3-
5.01.

5.02.

5.03.

6.01.

6.02.

ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following:

(a) the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower
and the Project Implementing Entity;

(b) The Project Operational Manual has been adopted by the Project
Implementing Entity.

The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following: namely, that the
Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and
the Project Implementing Entity and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the
Project Implementing Entity in accordance with its terms.

Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no
case later than eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan, which
expires on September 14, 2015.
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance and Planning.
The Borrower’s Address is:
Ministry of Finance and Planning
30 National Heroes Circle
Kingston 4
Jamaica

Facsimile:

876-924-929]

-4.
6.03.

The Bank’s Address is:

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America

Cable address: Telex: Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 64145(MCI)

AGREED at NCOSTON “SAV CA ,asof the day and year first
above written. .

JAMAICA |

  

Authorized Representative

Name: Pelee D. | le lie

\ Ss
Title: Mini ster ot Ey WOACR and Plannras

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION DEVELOPMENT

    

By

Autlforized Representative

Name: Sob Su Aa Lag

Title: Hee Director

-5-
SCHEDULE 1

Project Description

The objective of the Project is to enhance access to basic urban infrastructure and
services and to contribute towards increased community safety in selected economically
vulnerable and socially volatile inner city communities of the Borrower.

The Project consists of the following parts:

Part 1: Basic Infrastructure and Access to Services:

 

Developing infrastructure investments across Project Communities according to
identified community priorities, including, inter alia:

(a)
(b)
(c)

(d)

(e)
(f)
(g)

(h)

widening, rehabilitating and paving existing roads;
improving storm water drainage;

installing water supply and sanitation household connections and
promoting behavioral change for the use and maintenance of water
supply and sanitation infrastructure;

improving electricity connections and lighting through: (1) installing
street lighting; (2) extending the electricity network and regularization of
illegal electricity connections; (3) promoting behavioral change for the
use and maintenance of electricity connections and lighting; and (4)
supporting environmentally sustainable lighting;

rehabilitating educational facilities;
removing zinc fences and replacing with permanent structures;

constructing community integrated spaces and mobile mediation centers;
and

improving the cleanliness of Project Communities through: (1) the
provision of equipment; (2) the construction of skip enclosures around
dumpsters; (3) the carrying out of cleanup and maintenance activities by
Environmental Wardens; and (4) the provision of RB Incentives to: (A)
NSWMA for the provision of waste collection and recycling services;
and (B) Community-Based Organizations and Environmental Wardens
for the carrying out of litter management and collection; all located in
RB Community Areas.

-6-
Part 2: Public Safety Enhancement and Alternative Livelihoods:

(a) Supporting the development and roll-out of programs that focus on key safety
concerns and high risk groups through, inter alia:

(i)
(il)

Implementing the Violence Interrupter Programs; and

Strengthening school and community based violence prevention
interventions in Selected Communities, including, inter alia: (1) the Safe
Passages Program; (2) the Programme for Alternative Student Support;
and (3) school-community and after-school programs.

(b) Supporting alternative livelihoods through, inter alia:

(1)

(ii)

(iii)

(iv)

Implementing programs (selected pursuant to the criteria set forth in the
Project Operational Manual) to engage youth in leadership and civic
participation.

Improving participation in community cleanliness through: (1)
implementing cleanup programs (selected pursuant to the criteria set
forth in the Project Operational Manual); and (2) strengthening public
awareness programs to improve the cleanliness of Project Communities.

Strengthening micro-enterprises through: (1) designing a skills and
knowledge transfer program; and (2) providing training in the following
areas: business plan development, operations, accounting, marketing,
human resources and finance.

Implementing youth education and recreation programs (selected
pursuant to the criteria set forth in the Project Operational Manual) to
enhance learning and develop social and conflict mediation skills.

Part 3: Institutional Strengthening for Urban Management and Public Safety:

Supporting institutional strengthening activities related to urban management and
public safety through, inter alia:

(a)

Carrying out capacity building activities for selected entities of the
Borrower responsible for urban management through, inter alia:

(i) providing technical assistance to the MTWH to identify options
for low-income housing in densely populated areas, including
the development of a strategy to incorporate the private sector
and NGOs in low-income housing development;

-7-

 
(b)

(il)

(iii)

(iv)

(v)

providing equipment and technical assistance to the NLA
through: (1) improving the systems to pre-check survey plans
and cadastral maps for the general registration of land titles; and
(2) preparing a national policy on land regularization;

preparing an urban renewal plan for communities in and around
Downtown Kingston, including actions to address poor
infrastructure and housing;

preparing a strategy for the renewal of inner city communities
considering infrastructure and housing stock; and

carrying out capacity building activities, as required, for the
Borrower’s governmental agencies responsible for the operation
and maintenance of basic infrastructure, including: roads, water
pipelines, sanitation facilities, drainage works, educational
facilities, community centers, public spaces, skips and drums.

Carrying out capacity building activities for selected entities of the
Borrower responsible for public safety through, inter alia:

(i)

(ii)

(iii)

improving the coverage, range and distribution of data collected
by the Crime Observatory, including, inter alia: (1) expanding
coverage; (2) improving the software to analyze data collected;
(3) carrying out capacity building activities for staff to analyze
and disseminate a greater volume of information; (4) carrying
out two Victimization Surveys; and (5) updating existing
community profiles through the inclusion of new data on crime
and violence and outreach to communities to obtain information;

strengthening the Borrower’s governmental agencies’ capacity
to: (1) carry out impact evaluation and evidence-based crime and
violence reduction interventions; and (2) collect public safety
data.

providing training to community mobilizers and _para-
professionals for the incorporation of evidence-based principles
and approaches for the implementation of Part 2(a) of the
Project.
Part 4: Project Management:

Supporting Project management through, inter alia:

(a)
(b)

(c)
(d)
(e)

(f)

(g)

(h)

carrying out Project audits;

carrying out the financial management and procurement requirements
under the Project;

monitoring and evaluation of Project activities;
providing equipment and training for the PIU;

carrying out workshops and outreach activities to promote positive
environmental and social behavior related to the Project;

hiring an Independent Verification Agent for purposes of Part 1(h) (4) of
the Project

providing technical assistance to support: (i) crime and violence
prevention activities under the Project; (ii) environmental and social
management under the Project; and (iii) financial and procurement
management under the Project; and

financing Operating Costs.

-9-
SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Section I. Implementation Arrangements

A.

Institutional Arrangements.

The Borrower shall ensure that the PIU is operated and maintained, throughout
implementation of the Project, with functions, staffing, and responsibilities
satisfactory to the Bank, as set forth in the Project Operational Manual.

Subsidiary Agreement

To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make the proceeds
of the Loan available to the Project Implementing Entity under a subsidiary
agreement (the Subsidiary Agreement) between the Borrower and the Project
Implementing Entity, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, which
shall include, inter alia: (a) the Loan amount; (b) the terms and conditions for the
Project Implementing Entity’s receipt of the Loan on a grant basis; (c) the
obligations of the Project Implementing Entity to take all actions to enable the
Borrower to comply with the pertinent obligations under this Agreement as
applicable to the Project; and (d) the pertinent provisions of this Agreement.

The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the
Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower
and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, terminate, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Agreement or any of its provisions.

Anti-Corruption

The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.

Safeguards

The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
EMF and RPF.

-10-
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to ensure that the
terms of reference for any consultancy in respect to Part 3 of the Project shall be
satisfactory to the World Bank following its review thereof and, to that end, such
terms of reference shall duly incorporate the requirements of the Bank
Safeguards Policies then in force, as applied to the advice conveyed through such
technical assistance.

Section II. Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

Project Reports

The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate, or cause the Project Implementing
Entity to monitor and evaluate, the progress of the Project and prepare Project
Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
Conditions and on the basis of indicators as set forth in the Project Operational
Manual. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester,
and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than one month after the end of the
period covered by such report.

For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall
be furnished to the Bank not later than four (4) months after the Closing Date.

Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits

The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.

Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of each Project Report, interim unaudited
financial reports for the Project covering the semester, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank.

The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the
Bank not later than six months after the end of such period.

-|]-
Section III. Procurement
A, General

l. Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.

2. Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.

3. Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, II], TV and V of the Consultant
Guidelines, as the case may be.

B. Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services

1. International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.

2. Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding,
may be used for procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for
those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan:

(a) National Competitive Bidding;
(b) Shopping;

(c) Community Participation procedures which have been found acceptable
to the Bank; and

(d) Direct Contracting.

-|2-
D.

Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services

 

Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.

Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants’ services for those contracts which are specified in
the Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based Selection; (b) Selection under a Fixed
Budget; (c) Least Cost Selection; (d) Selection based on Consultants’
Qualifications; (e) Single-source Selection of consulting firms; (f) Procedures set
forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of
Individual Consultants; and (g) Single-source procedures for the Selection of
Individual Consultants.

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank’s Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.

Section IV. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

A.

l.

 

General

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.

The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.

-}3-
  
   
  

    
      
  
      
      

   
   

Amount of the Loan | Percentage of Expenditures

Allocated to be financed
(expressed in USD) (inclusive of Taxes)

41,430,726 100%
285,714 100%

178,560

105,000
Interest Rate Collar
premium

TOTAL AMOUNT 42,000,000

   
     
   
   
     
 
     

  

Category

  

(1) Goods, works, non-
consulting services,
consultants’ services, and
Operating Costs for Parts
1 (a) through (h) (3), 2, 3
and 4 of the Project

  

(2) Goods to serve as RB
Incentives for NSWMA
under Part 1(h)(4)(A) of
the Project

 
     
  

  

(3) Salary supplement and
goods and/or works under
Subprojects to serve as
RB Incentives for
Environmental Wardens
and Community Based
Organizations,
respectively, all under
Part 1(h)(4)(B) of the
Project

 
 
       
   
   
       
   
 
     
  
 
   

(4) Front-end Fee Amount payable pursuant to
Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07(b) of the

General Conditions

  

       
  

(5) Interest Rate Cap or Amount due pursuant to
Section 2.07(c) of this

Agreement

      

-|4-
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be

made:

(a)
(b)

(c)

for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.

for payments under Category (2) unless: (i) the Project Implementing
Entity retains an Independent Verification Agent; (ii) the NSWMA RB
Agreement has been executed, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank; (iii) the Project Implementing Entity has furnished to the Bank an
acceptable Independent Verification Report; and (iv) said Independent
Verification Report has not been presented to the Bank to support a
previous withdrawal application from the Loan Account; and

for payments under Category (3) in respect of each RB Agreement
unless: (i) the Project Implementing Entity retains an Independent
Verification Agent; (ii) the pertinent RB Agreement has been executed,
on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank; (iii) the Project
Implementing Entity has furnished to the Bank an acceptable
Independent Verification Report; and (iv) said report from the
Independent Verification Agent has not been presented to the Bank to
support a previous withdrawal application from the Loan Account.

The Closing Date is May 1, 2020.

-15-
 

SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date (“Installment Share”). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.

Principal Payment Date Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)

On each February 15 and August 15 2.08%
Beginning on February 15, 2020
Through February 15, 2043

On August 15, 2043 2.24%

If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:

     

     

     

  
  

(a) To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1
of this Schedule.

(b) Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”)
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any

-16-
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.

(a) Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.

(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.

If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.

-17-
APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

1,

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.

“Bank Safeguard Policies” means the World Bank’s operational policies and
procedures set forth in the World Bank’s Operational Manual under OP/BPs
4.01, 4.04, 4.10, 4.11, 4.12, 4.36, 4.37, 7.50 and 7.60 as said manual is published

under www.worldbank.org/opmanual.

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.

“Community-Based Organizations” means a legally constituted organization,
representing a Project Community, participating in the Project pursuant to the
eligibility criteria set forth in the Project Operational Manual.

“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers” dated January 2011.

“Crime Observatory” means the Borrower’s program established in January 2011
to collect data on the location and type of criminal activity in Jamaica.

“Dispute Resolution Foundation” means a company incorporated and registered
in Jamaica in July 1994, for purpose of providing training and delivering services
to support the Borrower’s agenda for justice, peace and development, including
the promotion of mechanisms for alternative dispute resolution.

“Environmental Management Framework” or “EMF” means the Project
Implementing Entity’s framework dated October 15, 2013, duly published and
available to the public on December 6, 2013, which contains the guidelines for
the carrying out of environmental assessments and for the preparation and
implementation of Environmental Management Plans, as well as_ the
environmental protection measures in respect of the Project, including chance
finding of cultural property and potential direct and indirect environmental
impacts from the carrying out of the Project, recommendation of mitigation
measures for each negative impact identified, as well as measures for enhancing
each identified positive impact, as said framework may be amended from time to
time with the prior agreement of the Bank.

-|8-
10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

17.

18.

19.

“Environmental Management Plan” or “EMP” means a _ site-specific
environmental management plan, acceptable to the Bank, prepared under the
Project in accordance with the EMF, describing the environmental mitigation
measures anticipated for activities under the Project and the parties responsible
for monitoring of construction and operational impacts.

“Environmental Warden” means an individual retained by the Project
Implementing Entity on a consultancy basis, with terms of reference satisfactory
to the Bank and selected pursuant to the eligibility criteria set forth in the Project
Operational Manual, for the purpose of litter collection and management.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated March 12, 2012.

“Independent Verification Agent” means the independent verification agent
referred to in Section C.1 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.

“Independent Verification Report” means each of the quarterly reports referred to
in Section C.2. (b) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.

“MTWH?” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Transport, Works and Housing, or
any legal successor thereto.

“NGO” means Non-governmental Organization.

“NLA” means the Borrower’s National Land Agency, established as an executive
agency in April 2002, or any legal successor thereto.

“NSWMA” means the Borrower’s National Solid Waste Management Authority,
created pursuant to the National Solid Waste Management Act of 2002, or any
legal successor thereto.

“NSWMA RB Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section B.1 of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement.

“Operating Costs” means the incremental expenses incurred on account of
Project implementation, supervision, monitoring and evaluation, including office
equipment and supplies, reasonable commercial banking charges and fees,
vehicle operation and maintenance, communication and insurance costs,
operation and maintenance of office equipment, office administration costs,
utilities, travel, and per diem supervision, and salaries of locally contracted
employees (none of which would have been incurred in the absence of the
Project), excluding salaries of civil servants.

-19-
20.

21.

22.

23.

24.

295.

26.

27.

“PIU” means the Project Implementing Unit within the Project Implementing
Entity, referred to in section I.A of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, and
created in November 25, 2013

“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers” dated January 2011.

“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project,
dated February 4, 2014 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.

“Programme for Alternative Student Support” means the Borrower’s program
established in January 2001 jointly administered by the Borrower’s Ministry of
Education and the Dispute Resolution Foundation under which students
displaying severe maladaptive behaviors in school would undergo behavior
modification, or any successor thereof.

“Project Community” or collectively “Project Communities,” means any of the
following communities selected for the Project: (a) Anchovy; (b) Barrett Town;
(c) Curatoe Hill/Canaan Heights; (d) Denham Town; (e) Granville; (f) Greenwich
Town; (g) Hannah Town; (h) Majesty Gardens; (i) Maxfield Park; (j) Retirement,
(k) Russia; (1) Spanish Town Central (Ellerslie Pen); (m) Steer Town; (n) Tivoli
Gardens; (0) Treadlight; (p) Trench Town (Rose Town and Wilton
Gardens/Rema); (q) York Town; and (r) any other community that is selected
pursuant to the criteria set forth in the Project Operational Manual.

“Project Implementing Entity” or “JSIF” means the Jamaica Social Investment
Fund, established pursuant to the Project Implementing Entity’s Charter, for
purposes of assisting in building the Borrower’s capacity to effectively
implement community-based programs aimed at social development, or any legal
successor thereto.

“Project Implementing Entity’s Charter” means the Memorandum and Articles of
Association of JSIF, both dated February 26, 1996, by which JSIF was
incorporated under the Borrower’s Companies Act, as said charter has been
amended to the date of this agreement.

“Project Operational Manual” means the manual satisfactory to the Bank,

referred to in Section I.D.1 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, as such
manual may be amended from time to time with the Bank’s prior approval.

-20-
28.

29.

30.

31.

32.

33.

34.

“RB Agreement” means any agreement referred to in Section I.B.2 of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement.

“RB Community Area” means any area selected by the Project Implementing
Entity pursuant to the criteria set forth in the Project Operational Manual for
purposes of Part 1(h)(4) of the Project.

“RB Incentives” means the results-based incentives provided by the Project
Implementing Entity in the form of the provision of goods, Subprojects, or the
provision of a salary supplement not exceeding 10% of the Borrower’s minimum
wage effective as of the date of provision of said salary supplement, all financed
with Loan proceeds under Part 1(h)(4) of the Project for the benefit of NWSMA,
Community-Based Organizations, and Environmental Wardens respectively, as
further described in the Project Operational Manual.

“Resettlement” means the impact of an involuntary taking of land under the
Project, which taking causes affected persons to have their: (i) standard of living
adversely affected; or (ii) right, title or interest in any house, land (including
premises, agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset
acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (iii) access to productive
assets adversely affected, temporarily or permanently; or (iv) business,
occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely affected, temporarily
or permanently.

“Resettlement Action Plan” or “RAP” means a site-specific resettlement action
plan, acceptable to the Bank, prepared under the Project in accordance with the
“RPF” describing a program of actions, measures and policies for compensation
of persons, including compensation arrangements, budget and cost estimates, and
sources of funding, together with adequate institutional, monitoring and reporting
arrangements capable of ensuring proper implementation of, and regular
feedback on compliance with its terms for each site.

“Resettlement Policy Framework” or “RPF” means the Project Implementing
Entity’s policy framework for Resettlement, dated December 4, 2013, duly
published and available to the public on December 5, 2013, which contains
procedures and guidelines for the preparation, adoption, implementation and
monitoring of Resettlement Action Plans, as said framework may be amended
from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank.

“Safe Passages Program” means the Borrower’s program established in
November 2004 to reduce opportunities for the commission of violence and
crime through community members patrolling routes to and from schools, in
collaboration with school officials, or any successor thereof.

-2|-
35.

36.

37.

38.

39.

“Selected Community” means any community selected pursuant to the criteria set
forth in the Project Operational Manual for purposes of Part 2(a)(ii) of the
Project.

“Subproject” means any activity for productive purposes to enhance the quality
of life in a RB Community Area, which has been selected by the Project
Implementing Entity, with the participation of the pertinent Community Based
Organization, and carried out by the Project Implementing Entity for the benefit
of said Community Based Organization, all in accordance with the criteria
specified in the Project Operational Manual, under Part 1(h)(4) of the Project.

“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.B.1 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, pursuant to which the Borrower shall make the
proceeds of the Loan available to the Project Implementing Entity.

“Victimization Survey” means a survey conducted by the Borrower to gather
data on victims of crimes in Jamaica.

“Violence Interrupter Programs” means the interventions corresponding to the
Borrower’s National Crime Prevention and Community Safety Strategy, dated
October 6, 2010, focusing on strengthening crisis management, trauma response,
counseling mediation, community outreach and mobilization working with most
at-risk youth, or any successor thereof.

-22-
