Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

 

LOAN NUMBER 8463-KZ

Loan Agreement

(Fostering Productive Innovation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated Site G , 2015
LOAN AGREEMENT

“ar
Agreement dated (A 77E G , 2015, between REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN

(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”.. The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:

1.01.

1.02.

2.01.

2.02.

2.03.

2.04.

2.05.

ARTICLE I -- GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.

Unless the context r2quires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings .iscribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IT — LOAN

The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in thi: Agreement, the amount of eighty-eight million Dollars
($88,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this
Agreement (“Loar ), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule | to
this Agreement (““P ‘oject’”’).

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee
not later than sixty 60) days after the Effective Date.

The Commitment C harge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.

The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Refer:nce Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upor a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the intere st payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Witk drawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall inst:ad be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(e) of the General
Conditions.
2.06.

2.07.

2.08.

3.01.

3.02.

-)-

The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year.

The principal amcunt of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization sched le set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

(a)

(b)

The Borrov'er may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the term: of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:

(1)

(ii)

(111)

acl ange of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
am unt of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Cuirency;

a ciange of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any
por:ion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
out standing from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa;
or B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
witidrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Relerence Rate and the Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based
on .. Fixed Reference Rate and the Variable Spread, or vice versa;
or C) all of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
out standing from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a
Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and

the setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate
apf licable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
witidrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest
Ratz Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the
Rejerence Rate.

Any convetsion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted b: the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in
the Genera. Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.

ARTICLE III — PROJECT

The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end,
the Borrower shall carry out the Project through its Ministry of Education and
Science (“MOES”). in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions.

Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrc-wer and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Proj«ct is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
2 to this Agreement,
4.01.

4.02.

5.01.

5.02.

5.03.

-3-

ARTICLE } V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
The Additional Corditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:

(a) The MOESX has issued an order to establish the PMU, as provided in
Section [.A 2. of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

(b) The Project Operations Manual, satisfactory to the Bank, has been adopted
by the Borr wer, through MOES.

The Effectiveness C eadline is the date one hundred eighty (180) days after the date
of this Agreement.

ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance.
The Borrower’s Ad dress is:

Ministry of Finance
11 Pobedy Avenue

Astana 010000
Republic of Kazakt stan
Telex: Facsimile:

265126 (FILIN) (7) (7172) 717785

The Bank’s Addres ; is: |

International Bank : or Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of Anierica

Cable address: Telex: Facsimile:

INTBAFRAD 248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 64145(MCI)
-4-

g
AGREED at 1h TWO, Eye Cc Of , as of the day and year first
above written. AZQ Sarpy

REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN

By

  

Authorized Representative

Name: aLhyZ Sy ere

Title: ris Ce A, SOIC E ’

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

” L PdtEedX =

Authorized Representative

Name LUG ly Burlente
Title: Country Monn gee

 
-5-

SCHEDULE 1
Project Description

The objective of the Project is to promote high-quality, nationally relevant research
and commercialization of technologies.

The Project consist: of the following parts:

Part 1; Development of th: Knowledge Base for Innovation

Promoting high-quality, nationally relevant research and development and
advanced human capital a:tivities through the provision of Junior Researcher Group
Grants, Senior Scientist Grcup Grants, and PhD Research and Training Grants.

Part 2: Innovation Consoi tia

Promoting collaboration among existing scientific research institutes and design
bureaus and scientific and e igineering profile laboratories in Kazakhstan: (a) in respect of
research and development : ctivities for purposes of improving the productive sectors of
the Borrower’s economy, th ‘ough the provision of Productive Sector Consortia Grants; and
(b) in respect of the deliver’ of social services, including improving the livelihood of the
urban and rural population, through the provision of Inclusive Innovation Consortia Grants.

Part 3: Consolidation of the Technology Commercialization Cycle
Promoting the deve opment of start-up companies through:

A. Establishment of the Early Stage Venture Capital Fund (“ESVC Fund”)
for purposes of providing ESVC Investments to finance ESVC
Subproject:, including provision of management support;

B. Provision cf consultants’ services to develop technology and innovation
ideas into \iable commercial projects, through innovation brokerage and
deal flow g :neration activities, pursuant to criteria set forth in the POM;

C. Establishment and operation of Technology Acceleration Offices outside
of Kazakhs.an; and

D. Establishin,: the capacity of existing Technology Transfer Offices at major
Kazakh universities and enhancing their capacity through the provision of
Training.
-6-

Part 4: Strengthening Coordination of the National Innovation System; Enhancing
the Capacity of the Existir g Institutional Structures

Promoting better c.ordination among key stakeholders and relevant authorities
and ministries of the Borr>wer in the National Innovation System, by designing and
establishing an innovation observatory, consisting of a formal framework to monitor
innovation performance of the public and private sectors, through provision of goods,
consultants’ services, all pu‘suant to criteria set forth in the POM.

Part 5: Support Project Ir1plementation

Support the PMU in carrying out the Project management, monitoring and
evaluation, awareness raisirg activities and capacity development.
-7-

SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Section I. Implementation Arrangements

Institutional Arraligements

The Borrower, thro igh the MOES, shall carry out the Project in accordance with
the requirements, cr teria, organizational arrangements and operational procedures
set forth in the POM.

The Borrower, thrcugh the MOES, shall establish, and thereafter operate and
maintain throughou: Project implementation, a Project Management Unit (PMU)
with functions and r :sponsibilities (including the responsibility to assist the MOES
in carrying out the day-to-day Project activities), staff with qualifications and
experience (includii.g a director, a procurement specialist, a financial management
specialist, a monito-ing and evaluation specialist, a safeguards specialist and an
accountant) and ade quate resources, all satisfactory to the Bank.

The Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any provisions of the
POM without the piior approval of the Bank.

The Borrower, throu gh the MOES, shall establish and thereafter maintain a Project
Steering Committee with composition (including, inter alia, representatives of the
Department of Finance of the MOES, Legal Department of the MOES, Head of
the PMU, and chai-ed by the Vice-Minister of the MOES in charge of Project
implementation), aid functions and responsibilities, acceptable to the Bank,
including, inter alia, the responsibility to: (i) provide strategic guidance to the
MOES for overall F roject implementation; (ii) develop and approve annual plans
for Project activities, Project budget, and the relevant Procurement Plan, as well as
regular review of Pr ject monitoring and evaluation data to determine progress and
propose adjustment: to the MOES to ensure satisfactory achievement of the Project
objective; (iii) coorc inate and promote among key stakeholders consensus building
on key policy issiaes related to Project implementation; and (iv) monitor
implementation of 1 novation reforms.

The Borrower, thro 1gh the MOES shall rely on and shall cause the Science Fund
to provide necessary assistance to MOES in the technical aspects of the Project,
including, inter «lia, preparing and monitoring technical aspects of
implementation plas (work programs and budgets), drafting technical aspects of
terms of reference, participating in selection processes of Subproject Grant
recipients, monitoring the technical aspects of performance of Subprojects,
collecting technical data on Project monitoring indicators, all pursuant to the POM.
-8-

Without limitations to the provisions of Section 5.03 of the General Conditions,
the Borrower shall , rovide to the MOES, promptly, as needed, the funds and other
resources for the implementation of Parts 4 and 5 of the Project.

The Borrower, through the MOES, shall establish and maintain, at all times during
implementation of the Project, the ISCB with staff with qualifications and
experience acceptable to the Bank (including scientists with qualifications and
experience representing the fields of scientific expertise that are of strategic
importance for the FE orrower, including, inter alia, physical chemistry, geophysical
sciences, engineering, mathematics, biomedical or bioengineering, ecology,
information technclogy and electronics, and materials science), as well as
resources, and term: of reference, all satisfactory to the Bank.

The Borrower, thro igh the MOES, shall enable the ISCB to provide guidance on
all scientific matter: associated with the Project, including guidance in connection
with the selection o' the recipients of SSG Grants, JRG Grants, and PhD Research
and Training Grunts, and on the monitoring of their scientific and
commercialization progress, all in accordance with the requirements, criteria,
organizational arrar gements and operational procedures set forth in the POM and
the EMF.

Within six (6) months from the Effective Date, the Borrower, through the MOES,
shall, develop and 1|:.unch a new financial management system which shall be used
to, inter alia, generé te the interim unaudited financial reports referred to in Section
II.B.2 of this Sched ile.

Subprojects

For the purposes of carrying out any Junior Researcher Group Subproject, Senior
Scientist Group Sut project, or PhD Research and Training Subproject under Part
1 of the Project, the Borrower, through the MOES, shall make SSG Grants, JRG
Grants, and PhD Research and Training Grants in accordance with the eligibility
criteria and procedures set forth in the POM. Each proposal for any given Junior
Researcher Group Subproject, Senior Scientist Group Subproject, or PhD
Research and Train ng Subproject, shall:

(a) be market-c riented and scientifically and internationally competitive;

(b) have resear*h relevance for the current or future scientific, economic, and
industrial d:velopment of Kazakhstan, including the possibility of forging
research pa tnerships with local or foreign business firms;

(c) include plans for mentoring graduate and undergraduate students and
providing taining fellowships aimed at nurturing the next generation of
scientists;
-9-

(d) have potential for, and interest in conducting multidisciplinary research;

(e) include pro dosals for outreach activities to universities, secondary schools
and the gen2ral public; and

(f) be selected. appraised, implemented and evaluated in accordance with the
principles and procedures set forth in the POM, the Procurement
Guidelines, and the EMF.

For the purposes oi carrying out any Productive Sector Consortia Subproject, or
Inclusive Innovaticn Consortia Subproject under Part 2 of the Project, the
Borrower, through the MOES, shall make PSC Grants and IIC Grants in
accordance with the eligibility criteria and procedures set forth in the POM. Each
proposal for any y;iven Productive Sector Consortia Subproject or Inclusive
Innovation Consort a Subproject, shall be:

(a) selected by MOES upon the advice of the ISCB;
(b) be market-c riented and scientifically and internationally competitive;

(c) have resear:*h relevance for the current or future scientific, economic, and
industrial d:velopment of Kazakhstan;

(d) be selected, appraised, implemented and evaluated in accordance with the
principles and procedures set forth in the POM, the Procurement
Guidelines, and the EMF.

The Borrower, through the MOES, shall make each SSG Grant under a SSG Grant
Agreement, each JE.G Grant under a JRG Grant Agreement, each PhD Research
and Training Grant under a PhD Research and Training Grant Agreement, each
PSC Grant under a ?SC Grant Agreement, and each IIC Grant under an IIC Grant
Agreement, all on terms and conditions approved by the Bank, which shall include
the following:

(a) SSG Grants, JRG Grants, PhD Research and Training Grants, PSC Grants,
and IIC Gr< nts shall be denominated in Tenge; and

(b) the Borrow::r shall obtain rights adequate to protect its interests and those
of the Bank, including the right to:

(1) sus send or terminate use of the proceeds of an SSG Grant, JRG
Grént, PhD Research and Training Grant, PSC Grant, or IIC
Gré nt, as the case may be, or obtain a refund of all or any part of
the amount of the SSG Grant, JRG Grant, PhD Research and
Training Grant, PSC Grant, or IIC Grant upon failure by the
(il)

-10-

per‘inent recipient to perform any of its obligations under the
cor -esponding SSG Grant Agreement, JRG Grant Agreement,
Ph]) Research and Training Grant Agreement, PSC Grant
Ag eement, or IIC Grant Agreement, respectively; and

req lire each recipient of an SSG Grant, JRG Grant, PhD Research
anc Training Grant, PSC Grant or IIC Grant, to:

(A)

(B)

(C)

(D}

(E)

carry out the pertinent Subproject, as the case may be,
with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with
sound technical, economic, financial, managerial,
environmental and social standards and _ practices
satisfactory to the Bank, including in accordance with the
provisions of the EMF and the Anti-Corruption
Guidelines;

provide, promptly as needed, the resources required for
the purpose;

procure the goods, minor works and services to be
financed out of a SSG Grant, JRG Grant , PhD Research
and Training Grant , PSC Grant, or IIC Grant, as the case
may be, in accordance with the provisions of this
Agreement, and the provisions set forth in Section III of
this Schedule (including the Attachment to this
Schedule);

maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate, in accordance with indicators
acceptable to the Bank, the progress of the pertinent
Subproject and the achievement of its objectives;

(1) maintain a financial management system and
prepare financial statements in accordance with
consistently applied accounting standards
acceptable to the Bank, both in a manner adequate
to reflect the operations, resources and
expenditures related to the Subproject; and

(2) at the Bank’s or the Borrower’s request, have
such financial statements audited by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance
with consistently applied auditing standards
acceptable to the Bank, and promptly furnish the
statements as so audited to the Borrower and the
Bank;
-11-

(F) enable the Borrower and the Bank to inspect the
respective Subproject, its operation and any relevant
records and documents; and

(G prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the Bank all such
information as the Borrower or the Bank shall reasonably
request relating to the foregoing.

The Borrower, through the MOES, shall exercise its rights and carry out its
obligations under :ach SSG Grant Agreement, JRG Grant Agreement, PhD
Research and Trairing Grant Agreement, PSC Grant Agreement, and IIC Grant
Agreement in such nanner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank
and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrowe: shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive, terminate or fail to
enforce any SSG Giant Agreement, any JRG Grant Agreement, any PhD Research
and Training Grart Agreement, any PSC Grant Agreement, any IIC Grant
Agreement, or any of their provisions.

For the purposes of carrying out Part 3.A. of the Project, the Borrower, through
MOES, shall hire aid retain a private management company for the ESVC Fund
with qualifications and experience and terms of reference, all acceptable to the
Bank, which shal be responsible, inter alia, for actively seeking ESVC
Subprojects, preseiting them to the ESVC Fund Investment Committee,
monitoring performance of ESVC Investments, and regularly informing the ESVC
Fund Steering Board on the ESVC Fund’s performance.

For the purposes of carrying out Part 3.A. of the Project and in order to ensure the
ESVC Fund ability to provide early stage financing for ESVC Subprojects, the
Borrower, through MOES, shall transfer the proceeds of the Loan allocated to
Category (4) to th: ESVC Fund pursuant to an agreement to be entered into
between the Borro'ver, through MOES, and the ESVC Fund (the “ESVC Fund
Establishment Agrvement’) on terms and conditions, acceptable to the Bank,
which shall include inter alia:

(a) the right of the Borrower, through the MOES, to take remedial actions
against the SCV Fund in case the ESVC Fund shall have failed to comply
with any of its obligations under the ESVC Fund Establishment
Agreement (which actions may include, inter alia, the partial or total
suspension and/or cancellation or refund of all or any part of the proceeds
of the Loam transferred to the ESVC Fund pursuant to the ESVC Fund
Establishment Agreement (as the case may be);

(b) the obligation of the Borrower, through the MOES, to: (i) provide from
the proceecs of the Loan, up to 50% of the total funds required to make
ESVC Investments, on a matching basis, provided that funds equivalerit to
(c)

-12-

the remaini 1g percentage necessary to attain 100% of the relevant ESVC
Investment are provided from private investors, pursuant to criteria set
forth in the POM, and from sources acceptable to the Bank; and (ii)
comply wih the pertinent obligations set forth in this Agreement. as
applicable to Part 3.A of the Project; and

the obligation of the ESVC Fund to, upon approval of any given ESVC
Subproject, make a ESVC Investment to the recipient of said ESVC
Investment pursuant to an agreement to be entered into between the ESVC
Fund and said recipient (the “ESVC Fund Investment Agreement”) on
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, which shall include, inter
alia:

(1) the ESVC Fund shall ensure that the ESVC Fund obtains rights
ade quate to protect the interests of the Borrower, the ESVC Fund,
anc those of the Bank, including the right to suspend or terminate
use of the proceeds of any given ESVC Investment, or obtain a
refiind of all or any part of the amount of the pertinent ESVC
Inv2stment upon failure by the recipient to perform any of its
obl gations under the corresponding ESVC Fund Investment
Ag eement; and

(11) req jire each recipient of any given ESVC Investment to:

(A} carry out the pertinent ESVC Subproject with due
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound
technical, economic, financial, managerial,
environmental and social standards and_ practices
satisfactory to the Bank, including in accordance with the
provisions of the EMF and the Anti-Corruption

Guidelines;

(B) provide, promptly as needed, the resources required for
the purpose;

(C) procure the goods, minor works and services to be

financed out of an ESVC Investment in accordance with
the provisions of this Agreement and Section III of this
Schedule (including the Attachment to this Schedule);

(D: maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate, in accordance with indicators
acceptable to the Bank, the progress of the ESCV
Subproject and the achievement of its objectives;
-13-

(E) (1) maintain a financial management system and
prepare financial statements in accordance with
consistently applied accounting standards
acceptable to the Bank, both in a manner adequate
to reflect the operations, resources and
expenditures related to the Sub-project; and

(2) at the Bank’s or the Borrower’s request, have
such financial statements audited by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance
with consistently applied auditing standards
acceptable to the Bank, and promptly furnish the
statements as so audited to the Borrower and the
Bank;

(F) enable the Borrower and the Bank to inspect the pertinent
ESVC Subproject, its operation and any relevant records
and documents; and

(G prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the Bank all such
information as the Borrower or the Bank shall reasonably
request relating to the foregoing.

The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the ESVC
Fund Establishmen: Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Eank and to accomplish the purposes of the ESVC Investment.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, through the MOES shall
ensure that the ESVC Fund shall not assign, amend, abrogate, terminate, waive or
fail to enforce any ISSVC Fund Grant Agreement or any provision thereof.

Anti-Corruption

The Borrower shal ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the A iti-Corruption Guidelines.

Safeguards

The Borrower shal carry out the Project through MOES in accordance with the
Environmental Management Framework and any site-specific environmental
management plans prepared thereunder, and shall not assign, amend, suspend,
abrogate, repeal cr waive any provision of the EMF or any site-specific
environmental man igement plans without the prior approval of the Bank.
-14-

The Borrower, through MOES, shall ensure that proposals for Subprojects,
including proposals for ESVC Subprojects shall not be approved if they involve:

(a) Any activit es involving Involuntary Resettlement;

(b) Any activities likely to have significant adverse environmental impacts
that are serisitive, diverse, or unprecedented, as determined by the Bank;
or

(c) Any activit es identified as not eligible in the EMF.

Section II. Project Mcnitoring Reporting and Evaluation

A.

Project Reports

The Borrower, thro igh the MOES, shal! monitor and evaluate the progress of the

Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of
the General Conditions and 9n the basis of indicators acceptable to the Bank. Each Project
Report shall cover the peric d of one calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to the Bank
not later than forty-five (45° days after the end of the period covered by such report.

B.

l.

Financial Manage: nent, Financial Reports and Audits

The Borrower, thrc ugh the MOES, shall maintain or cause to be maintained a
financial managem« nt system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of
the General Conditions.

Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower,
through the MOES. shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five
(45) days after the e 1d of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports
for the Project covering the pertinent calendar quarter, in form and substance
satisfactory to the E ank.

The Borrower, thro igh the MOES, shall have its Financial Statements audited in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each
audit of the Financ al Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the
Borrower. The aud: ted financial statements for each such period shall be furnished
to the Borrower and the Bank not later than six months after the end of such period,
and be made publicly available in a timely fashion and in a manner acceptable to
the Bank.

The Borrower, thro igh the MOES, shall ensure: (a) that the ESVC Fund prepares
financial statement: in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards
acceptable to the Bank, both in a manner adequate to reflect the operations and
financial condition of the ESVC Fund, including the operations, resources and
-15-

expenditures relate:| to Part 3.A of the Project; and (b) has its financial statements
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with
consistently applie1 auditing standards acceptable to the Bank. Each audited
financial statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower,
commencing with the fiscal year within which the first deposit into the ESVC Fund
is made out of the p-oceeds from the Loan. The audited financial statements of the
ESVC Fund for eac’ such period shall be furnished to the MOES and the Bank not
later than six montls after the end of such period, and be made publicly available
in a timely fashion ind in a manner acceptable to the Bank.

Section HI. Procurement

A.

I,

General

Goods and Non-coasulting Services. All goods, minor works and non-consulting
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be procured 1 accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in
Section I of the Pro-urement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.

Consultants’ Serv ces. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements s«t forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with: the provisions of this Section.

Definitions. The cz pitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methcds or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts
refer to the corre:ponding method described in Sections II and IH of the
Procurement Guide ines, or Sections II, II, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines,
as the case may be.

Particular Methocs of Procurement of Goods and Non-consulting Services

International Cor petitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, minor works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded cn the basis of International Competitive Bidding.

Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-consulting Services. The
following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used for
procurement of goods, minor works and non-consulting services for those
contracts specified n the Procurement Plan:

(a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to additional provisions set forth in
the Attachr ient to this Schedule 2;

(b) Shopping; iind

(c) Direct Con racting.
D.

-16-

Particular Methocs of Procurement of Consultants’ Services

 

Quality- and Cost based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultan's’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality anc. Cost-based Selection.

Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants’ services for those contracts which are specified in the
Procurement Plan:

(a) Selection u ider a Fixed Budget;

(b) Least Cost selection;

(c) Selection b ised on Consultants’ Qualifications;

(d) Single-source Selection of Consulting Firms;

(e) Selection 0° Individual Consultants; and

(f) Single-source Procedures for Selection of Individual Consultants.

Review by the Bark of Procurement Decisions

The Procurement P an shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank’s Prior Revie w. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank. :

Section IV. Withdrawiil of Loan Proceeds

General

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Articl: II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the
“World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised
from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant
to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in
paragraph 2 below.

The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of th: proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the
amounts of the Locn to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligibl2 Expenditures in each Category.
-17-

Amount of the Loan | Percentage of Expenditures

 

Allocated to be financed
Category (expressed in USD) (exclusive of Taxes)

(1) JRG Grants and SSG 30,000,000 100%
Grants under Part | of the

Project

(2) PhD Research and 10,000,000 100%
Training Grants under Part

1 of the Project

(3) PSC Grants, IIC 35,000,000 100%
Grants, and consultants’

services under Part 2 of the:

Project

(4) Establishment of the 10,000,000 100%
ESVC Fund, ESVC

Investments, and

management fees, and

audits, under Part 3.A of

the Project

(5) Consultants’ services 2,000,000 100%
under Part 3.B of the

Project

(6) Operating Costs under 600,000 37.5%
Part 3.C of the Project

(7) Consultants’ services 400,000 100%
under Part 3.C of the
Project

TOTAL AMOUNT 88,000,000

~~
a
-18-

For purposes of this table:

“Operating Costs” means th reasonable and incremental expenses incurred by the MOES,
on account of implementation of Part 3.C of the Project, for office supplies and other
consumables, office rent, nternet connection and communications costs, support for
information systems, trarslation costs, bank charges, utilities, reasonable travel,
transportation, per diem, accommodation costs (lodging), and other reasonable
expenditures directly associated with implementation of Part 3.C of the Project, as agreed
between the Borrower, thro igh MOES and the Bank on the basis of semi-annual budgets
acceptable to the Bank.

B. Withdrawal Cond tions; Withdrawal Period

I. Notwithstanding th> provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall! be
made:
(a) from the Lcan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the

Front-end F ee;
(b) for paymen:s made prior to the date of this Agreement; and

(c) under Cate;;ory (4), until the Borrower, through the MOES, has provided
evidence satisfactory to the Bank of the following: (i) that the ESVC Fund
has been established; (ii) the ESVC Fund Establishment Agreement has
been duly executed by the parties thereto and is legally binding upon each
such party n accordance with its terms; (iii) the ESVC Fund Manual has
been approved by the MOES, and adopted by the ESVC Fund, all on terms
and in a manner acceptable to the Bank.

2. The Closing Date is December 31, 2020.

Section V. Other Undertakings

A. Supervision of Activities Outside of the Borrower’s Territory

l. The Borrower shall ensure that no activity under Part 3.C of the Project shal! be
carried out without obtaining the necessary assurances and relevant permits from
the relevant authorities of the countries where any activity under Part 3.C of the

Project is intended ‘o be carried out, sufficient for the Borrower and the Bank, to
carry out any super /ision activities.
-|9-

Attachment
to
SCHEDULE 2

The procurement p:ocedures to be followed for National Competitive Bidding
shall be the tender procedur > set forth in the Law of the Borrower on Public Procurement
No. 303-III dated July 21, 2007, as amended by the Law of the Borrower “On amendments
and additions to certain leg:slative acts of Republic of Kazakhstan on the delimitation of
powers between different le vels of public administration” No. 239-V dated September 29,
2014; provided, however, that such procedure shall be subject to the provisions of Section
I and Paragraphs 3.3 and 3.+ of the Procurement Guidelines and the following additional

provisions:

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

(f)

Eligibility: The eligibility of bidders to participate in a procurement
process anc to be awarded a Bank-financed contract shall be as defined
under Secti n I of the Procurement Guidelines; accordingly, no bidder or
potential bidder shall be declared ineligible for contracts financed by the
Bank for reiisons other than those provided in Section I of the Procurement
Guidelines. Foreign bidders shall be allowed to participate in NCB
procedures, and shall not be obligated to partner with local bidders in order
to participa e in a procurement process.

Registration: Bidding shall not be restricted to pre-registered firms, and
foreign bidcers shall not be required to be registered with local authorities
as a prereql isite for submitting bids.

Preferences: No preference of any kind shall be applied in bid evaluation
on the basis of bidder nationality; origin of goods, services or labor; local
content; ciizen degree of ownership; and/or any other preferential
programs.

Bidding Dccuments: Procuring entities shall use the appropriate standard
bidding documents, including contractual provisions, satisfactory to the
Bank.

Cost Estimates: Cost estimates shall be confidential and shall not be
disclosed tc prospective bidders.

Bid Validity: An extension of bid validity, if justified by exceptional
circumstances, may be requested in writing from all bidders before the
expiration jJate and for a minimum period required to complete the
evaluation >r award a contract, provided that such extension shall cover
only the minimum period required to complete the evaluation and/or
award a coiitract, but not to exceed four (4) weeks. No further extensions
shall be requested without the prior written concurrence of the Bank.
(g)

(h)

(1)

Q)

(k)

-20-

Bid Submi:.sion and Bid Opening: Prospective bidders shall be given at
least thirty (30) days from the date of publication of the invitation to bid
or the date >f availability of the bidding documents, whichever is later, to
prepare anc submit bids. Bids shall be opened in public immediately after
the deadlin: for their submission. A copy of the bid opening minutes shall
be promptl provided to all bidders who submitted bids, and to the Bank
with respect to contracts subject to the Bank's prior review.

Qualification: Qualification criteria shall be clearly specified in the
bidding do’uments. All criteria so specified, and only such specified
criteria, shall be used to determine whether a bidder is qualified.
Qualificaticn shall be assessed on a "pass or fail" basis, and merit points
shall not b2 used. Such assessment shall be based entirely upon the
bidder's or prospective bidder's capability and resources to effectively
perform the contract, taking into account objective and measurable factors,
including: 'i) relevant general and specific experience, and satisfactory
past perfor nance and successful completion of similar contracts over a
given perio 4; (11) financial position; and where relevant; (iii) capability of
constructio 1 and/or manufacturing facilities.

Prequalificiition procedures and documents satisfactory to the Bank shall
be used for arge, complex and/or specialized works contracts. Verification
of the infor:nation upon which a bidder was prequalified, including current
commitmer ts and the bidder's capability with respect to personnel and
equipment, shall be carried out at the time of contract award.

Where prec ualification is not used, the qualification of the bidder who is
recommenced for award of contract shall be assessed by post-
qualificatioa, applying the qualification criteria stated in the bidding
documents.

Bid Evaluaiion: Evaluation criteria shall be clearly specified in the bidding
documents. Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the
quantifiabl: criteria declared in the bidding documents. Evaluation
criteria othe r than price shall be quantified in monetary terms. Merit points
and bracke ing shall not be used, and no minimum point or percentage
value shall be assigned to the significance of price, in bid evaluation.
Bidders shall not be eliminated on the basis of minor, nonmaterial
deviations. The procuring entity shall ask bidders for clarifications needed
to evaluate their bids, but shall not ask or permit bidders to change the
substance cr price of their bids after the bid opening.
(I)

(m)

(n)

(0)

(p)

(q)

(r)

-2]-

Contracts shall be awarded to the qualified bidder whose bid has been
determined (i) to be substantially responsive to the bidding documents;
and (ii) to offer the lowest-evaluated cost. No negotiation as to the price
or substanc > of the bid shall take place.

Rejection 0? Bids and Re-Bidding: No bids shall be rejected solely because
they fall below or exceed the estimated cost or outside of a range or
"bracket" o° bid values. All bids (including in the case when less than two
bids are received) shall not be rejected, the procurement process shall not
be cancelle 1, and new bids shall not be solicited without the Bank's prior
written con currence.

Guarantees Bid and contract guarantees shall be in the format and have
the require1 period of validity specified in the bidding documents. If
required, bid security shall be expressed as a fixed amount and shall not
exceed two percent (2%) of the estimated cost of the contract. No advance
payments s/iall be made to contractors without a suitable advance payment
guarantee.

Confidenti< lity: The process of bid evaluation shall be confidential until
the publication of contract award.

Electronic }’rocurement Systems: Electronic procurement systems may be
used, provided that the Bank is satisfied with the adequacy of the systems,
including, .nter alia, that the system is secure, maintains the integrity,
confidentia ity and authenticity of bids submitted.

Fraud and Corruption: In accordance with the Procurement Guidelines,
each biddit g document and contract shall include provisions stating the
Bank's polizy to sanction firms or individuals, found to have engaged in
fraud and/or corruption as defined in the Procurement Guidelines.

Inspection and Audit Rights: In accordance with the Procurement
Guidelines, each bidding document and contract financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall provide that bidders, suppliers, contractors and
their subco 1tractors, agents, personnel, consultants, service providers, or
suppliers sl.all permit the Bank to inspect all accounts, records and other
documents relating to the bid submission and performance of the contract
and to have said accounts and records audited by auditors appointed by the
Bank. Acts intended to materially impede the exercise of the Bank's
inspection ind audit rights provided for in the Procurement Guidelines
constitute an obstructive practice as defined in the Guidelines.
(s)

72.

Publication of the Award of Contract: The procuring entity shall publish
the followi1g information on contract award in a free and open access
website or 9n another means of publication acceptable to the Bank: (a)
name of each bidder who submitted a bid; (b) bid prices as read out at bid
opening; (c! name and evaluated price of each bid that was evaluated; (d)
name of bdders whose bids were rejected and the reasons for their
rejection; aid (e) name of the winning bidder, price it offered as well as
the duratior and summary scope of the contract awarded.
-23-

SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule

1. Subject to the provi sions of paragraph 2 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall repay
each Disbursed Amount in s:miannual installments payable on each June 15 and December
15, the first installment to te payable on the eleventh (11th) Payment Date following the
Maturity Fixing Date for th: Disbursed Amount and the last installment to be payable on
the thirtieth (30th) Paymeni Date following the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed
Amount. Each installment except for the last one shall be equal to one-twentieth (1/20) of
the Disbursed Amount. Th2 last installment shall be equal to the remaining outstanding
amount of the Disbursed Ar ount.

2. If any one or mor installments of principal of the Disbursed Amount would,
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph | of this Schedule, be payable after December 15,
2035, the Borrower shall also pay on such date the aggregate amount of all such
installments.

3. The Bank shall no:ify the Loan Parties of the amortization schedule for each
Disbursed Amount promptl after the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed Amount.

4. Notwithstanding the: provisions of paragraphs | through 3 of this Schedule, in the
event of a Currency Conversion of all or any portion of a Disbursed Amount to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable
on any Principal Paymen: Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination
immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the
amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency
Hedge Transaction relatiny; to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in
accordance with the Conve’sion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen
Rate.

5. If the Withdrawn Lan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schecule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each
Loan Currency.
-24-

APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

1.

“Anti-Corruption ‘Suidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud aid Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.

“Category” means ‘. category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.

“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under [BRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers” dated Jiinuary 2011 (revised July 2014).

“Early Stage Venture Capital Fund” or “ESVC Fund” means an early stage venture
capital fund to be established by the Borrower, through the MOES, in line with the
provisions of the Borrower’s legislation, using selection and eligibility criteria set
forth in the POM.

“Environmental M: nagement Framework” or “EMF” means the Environmental
Management Frame work prepared for the Project and published on September 10,
2014, and disclosed in the World Bank’s InfoShop on September 11, 2014,
satisfactory to the Isank, and consisting of the set of mitigation, monitoring, and
institutional measures to be taken to eliminate adverse environmental and social
impacts, offset then , or reduce them to acceptable levels, as well as actions needed
to implement these neasures, through the preparation of applicable environmental
management plans, all under the Project, as the same shall be amended from time
to time with the prior approval of the Bank.

“ESVC Fund Establishment Agreement” means the agreement between the MOES
and the ESVC Func, referred to in Section I.B.6 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
on terms and conditions approved by the Bank.

“ESVC Fund Investment Agreement” means the agreement between the ESVC
Fund and the recipi2nt of an ESVC Investment, referred to in Section I.B.6(c) of
Schedule 2 to this 4 greement, on terms and conditions approved by the Bank.

“ESVC Fund Inve: tment Committee” means a committee of the ESVC Fund
responsible for selecting ESVC Subprojects, and formed pursuant to criteria set
forth in the ESVC Fund Manual, which may include representatives of the MOES
and private sector iivestors.
10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

16.

-25-

“ESVC Fund Manval” means a document developed by the ESVC Fund, adopted
by the MOES, and acceptable to the Bank, that regulates all business processes,
reporting lines and distributions of responsibilities and accountability, including
procurement and financial management of the ESVC Fund.

“ESVC Fund Steering Board” means a committee of the ESVC Fund responsible
for providing strate;sic guidance and oversight to the operation of the ESVC Fund,
and formed pursuant to criteria set forth in the ESVC Fund Manual, which may
include senior repre sentatives of the MOES and private sector investors.

“ESVC Investment’ means any investment made out of the proceeds of the Loan
under Part 3.A of the Project, for the purpose of carrying out an ESVC Subproject,
which investment is: (i) selected in accordance with criteria and procedures set
forth in the POM; (ii) provided to finance recipients which meet the eligibility
criteria set forth in the POM; and (iii) for the financing of goods, non-consulting
services and consul ants’ services, as detailed in the POM.

“ESVC Subproject’ means any group of investments or activities of eligible
technology start-ups under Part 3.A of the Project, which meet the eligibility
criteria set forth in the POM.

“Fiduciary Handb«c.ok for Subproject Grant Recipients” means a document
prepared and offic ally approved by MOES, and acceptable to the Bank that
regulates all procu‘ement and financial management procedures and reporting
arrangements applicable to the recipients of Subproject Grants.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set fcrth in Section II of this Appendix.

“Inclusive Innovation Consortia Grant” or “IIC Grant” means any grant made out
of the proceeds of t!1e Loan under Part 2 of the Project, for the purpose of carrying
out Inclusive Innovation Consortia Subprojects, which grants are (i) selected in
accordance with criteria and procedures set forth in the POM; (ii) provided to
inclusive innovatio sector consortia who meet the eligibility criteria set forth in
the POM; and (iii) for the financing of goods, non-consulting services and
consultants’ services, as detailed in the POM.

“Inclusive Innovation Consortia Subproject” means any group of research and
development investments or activities under Part 2 of the Project to improve the
delivery of social services, including the livelihood of the urban and rural
population, all of which meet the eligibility criteria set forth in the POM.
17.

18.

19.

20.

21.

22.

23.

24.

-26-

“Inclusive Innovation Grant Agreement” or “IIC Grant Agreement” means any
agreement entered nto between the Borrower, through MOES, and the recipient
of an Inclusive Innc vation Consortia Grant, referred to in Section I.B of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.

“Involuntary Reset'lement” means the impact of an involuntary taking of land
under the Project, v ‘hich taking causes affected persons to have their: (i) standard
of living adversely affected; or (ii) right, title or interest in any house, land
(including premises, agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable
asset acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (iii) access to
productive assets ac versely affected, temporarily or permanently; or (iv) business,
occupation, work 0° place of residence or habitat adversely affected, temporarily
or permanently.

“ISCB” means the [nternational Science and Commercialization Board, referred
to in Schedule 2, Section I.A.7 of this Agreement.

“Junior Researcher Sroup Grant” or “JRG Grant” means any grant made out of the
proceeds of the Loan under Part | of the Project, for the purpose of carrying out a
Junior Researcher ‘sroup Subproject, which grant is: (i) selected in accordance
with criteria and >rocedures set forth in the POM; (ii) provided to young
researchers who meet the eligibility criteria set forth in the POM; and (iii) for the
financing of goods, non-consulting services and consultants’ services, as detailed
in the POM.

“Junior Researcher Group Grant Agreement” or “JRG Grant Agreement” means
an agreement enter2d into between the Borrower, through the MOES, and the
recipient of a JRG (rant referred to in Section I.B.3 Part B, of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.

“Junior Researche’ Group Subproject” means any group of research and
development invest ments or activities under Part | of the Project which meet the
eligibility criteria s¢ t forth in the POM.

“Ministry of Educa ion and Science” or “MOES” means the Borrower’s Ministry
of Education and Science, or any legal successor thereto.

‘National Innovation System” means the Borrower’s network of organizations,
rules and procedur2s related to the creation and dissemination of knowledge,
including enterprise sector firms, universities, research centers and think tanks.
25.

26.

27.

28.

29.

30.

31.

32.

-27-

“PhD Research and Training Grants” means any grant made out of the proceeds of
the Loan under Part | of the Project, for the purpose of carrying out a PhD Research
and Training Subpioject, which grant is: (i) selected in accordance with criteria
and procedures set f orth in the POM; (ii) provided to PhD students studying outside
of Kazakhstan who meet the eligibility criteria set forth in the POM; and (iii) for
the financing of g ods, non-consulting services and consultants’ services, as
detailed in the POM .

“PhD Research and Training Grant Agreement” means any agreement entered into
between the Borrover, through the MOES, and the recipient of a PhD Research
and Training Grant. referred to in Section I.B.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“PhD Research and Training Subproject” means any group of activities to promote
human capital in respect of research and development under Part | of the Project
which meet the eligibility criteria set forth in the POM.

“PMU” means the unit referred to in Section I.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Procurement Guid:2lines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrov ers” dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).

‘Procurement Plan’ means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project,
prepared by the MCES, dated November 6, 2014, and referred to in paragraph 1.18
of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines,
as the same shall be. updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions
of said paragraphs.

“Productive Sector Consortia Grant” or “PSC Grant’ means any grant made out of
the proceeds of the Loan under Part 2 of the Project, for the purpose of carrying
out a Productive Sector Consortia Subproject, which grant is: (i) selected in
accordance with criteria and procedures set forth in the POM; (ii) provided to
productive sector consortia who meet the eligibility criteria set forth in the POM;
and (iil) for the fi1ancing of goods, non-consulting services and consultants’
services, as detailec in the POM.

“Productive Sector Consortia Grant Agreement” or “PSC Grant Agreement”
means any agreement entered into between the Borrower, through MOES, and the
recipient of a Prodiictive Sector Consortia Grant, referred to in Section I.B.3 of
Schedule 2 to this /.greement.
33.

34.

35.

36.

37.

38.

39,

-28-

“Productive Sector Consortia Subproject” means any group of research and
development investments or activities under Part 2 of the Project to improve
productive sectors of the Borrower’s economy, such as agriculture, extractive
industries, and man ifacturing, all of which meet the eligibility criteria set forth in
the POM.

“Project Operations Manual” or “POM” means the Project Operations Manual,
describing procedu-es for implementation of the Project, consistent with the
provisions of this /.greement and with the national laws and regulations of the
Borrower and including, inter alia: (i) procedures governing administrative,
procurement, accounting, financial management matters, and monitoring and
evaluation arranger ents; (ii) sample formats for annual reports; (iii) terms and
conditions for the sclection, appraisal, evaluation and implementation of the SSG
Grants, JRG Grant, PhD Research and Training Grants, PSC Grants, and IIC
Grants; and (iv) the Fiduciary Handbook for Subproject Grant Recipients, as the
same may be amenc ed from time to time with the agreement of the Bank.

“Project Steering Committee” means the committee referred to in Schedule 2,
Section I. A. 4. of this Agreement.

“Science Committe: of the MOES” means the committee established under the
Borrower’s MOES, pursuant to the Borrower’s Government Decree No. 700, dated
July 21, 2006, or any successors thereto.

“Science Fund” mens the Joint Stock Company Science Fund, established by the
Borrower, pursuan to the Borrower’s Government Decree No. 1057, dated
November 7, 200€, (including all amendments to such Decree made to the
Decisions of the Bcrrower’s Government referenced therein as of the date of this
Agreement), whose sole shareholder is the Science Committee of the MOES, and
any successor there'o.

“Senior Scientist G oup Grant” or “SSG Grant” means any grant made out of the
proceeds of the Loan under Part 1 of the Project, for the purpose of carrying out a
Senior Scientist Group Subproject, which grant is: (i) selected in accordance with
criteria and procedures set forth in the POM; (ii) provided to senior researchers
who meet the eligibility criteria set forth in the POM; and (iii) for the financing of
goods, non-consulting services and consultants’ services detailed in the POM.

“Senior Scientist Gioup Grant Agreement” or “SSG Grant Agreement” means any
agreement entered into between the Borrower, through the MOES, and the
recipient of a SSC Grant, referred to in Section I.B.3 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, on tern s and conditions approved by the Bank.
40.

41.

42.

43.

44.

45.

46.

-29-

“Senior Scientist Group Subproject” means any group of research and
development invest nents or activities under Part 1 of the Project which meet the
eligibility criteria set forth in the POM.

“Subproject” meas, indistinctively, any Inclusive Innovation Consortia
Subproject, Junior Researcher Group Subproject, PhD Research and Training
Subproject, Productive Sector Consortia Subproject, ESVC Subproject or Senior
Scientist Group Sut project.

“Subproject Grant’ means, indistinctively, any SSG Grant, JRG Grant, PhD
Research and Train ng Grant, PSC Grant and IIC Grant.

“Technology Accel:ration Office” means any office to be financed from the Loan
proceeds and co-fit anced by the Borrower from its own resources, and located
outside of the Bo;rower’s territory and intended to enhance marketing and
technological capabilities of Kazakhstan’s technology companies.

“Technology Transfer Office’ means any existing office within Kazakh
universities which have been established to facilitate the transfer of technical
knowledge and capi.bilities throughout the territory of the Borrower.

“Tenge” means the ‘awful national currency of the Borrower.

“Training” means ill expenditures (other than those for consultants’ services)
related to training <ctivities under the Project such as training workshops, study
tours and local training and including training registration fees, travel costs and
per-diem allowances for the trainers and trainees, cost of training materials, space
and equipment rent:l, and other training related expenditures, as approved by the
Bank.

Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions

The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:

In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modific:d to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.

Section 3.01. (Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
“Section 3.01. Frent-end Fee; Commitment Charge

(a) The Borrov’er shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at
the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the “Front-end Fee’).
-30-

(b) The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loar Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the
“Commitment Chaige”). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty
days after the date o “the Loan Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts
are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan Account or cancelled. The
Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment
Date.”

In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and
paragraphs are molified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in
paragraph 2 above.

The Appendix is n odified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of “Cominitment Charge”, and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs
accordingly:

“19.  “Commitm:nt Charge” means the commitment charge specified in the
Loan Agreement fo: the purpose of Section 3.01(b).”

In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the
definition of “Fron:-end Fee” is modified by replacing the reference to Section
3.01 with Section 3 01 (a).

In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the
definition of the ter n “Loan Payment” is modified to read as follows:

68. “Loan Payinent’” means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the
Bank pursuant to tie Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including
(but not limited to) «ny amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-
end Fee, the Comm tment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any
prepayment premiu n, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of
a Conversion, the \’ariable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable
upon the establishrient of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any
Unwinding Amoun. payable by the Borrower.”

In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the
definition of ““Payn ent Date” is modified by deleting the word “is” and inserting
the words “and Cor mitment Charge are” after the word “interest”.
