Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

 

 

LOAN NUMBER 8525-MK

Loan Agreement

(Road Upgrading and Development Project)
between

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

and

PUBLIC ENTERPRISE FOR STATE ROADS

Dated OcToRer 6 , 2015
LOAN NUMBER 8525-MK
LOAN AGREEMENT

Agreement dated , 2015, between INTERNATIONAL BANK

FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) and PUBLIC ENTERPRISE FOR
STATE ROADS (“Borrower”). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:

1.01.

1.02.

2.01.

2.02.

2.03.

2.04.

2.05.

2.06.

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.

Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.

ARTICLE IT — LOAN

The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of eighty three million Euros (€83,000,000), as such
amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance
with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the
project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”).

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.

The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.

The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to the
Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e)
of the General Conditions.

The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.
2.07.

2.08.

3.01.

3.02.

4.01.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

(a)

(b)

(c)

The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest
rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or
(B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate
based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the
Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.

Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is accepted
by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in the General
Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV
of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.

Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium
payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE III — PROJECT

The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions.

Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the Project
is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK

The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that the Decision
or the by-laws of the Borrower governing the Borrower’s activities have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived, or the Guarantor has enacted new legislation or
4.02.

5.01.

5.02.

6.01.

6.02.

6.03.

-3-

issued new directives, so as to affect materially and adversely, in the opinion of the Bank,
the ability of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement.

The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that the event
specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs.

ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that the

Project Operational Manual has been adopted by the Borrower in a manner satisfactory to
the Bank.

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

The Borrower’s Representative is its Acting Director.

The Borrower’s Address is:

Public Enterprise for State Roads
Dame Gruev 14

1000 Skopje

Macedonia

Telephone: Facsimile:

(389-2) 3118-044 389 232 20535
The Bank’s Address is:

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America

Cable address: Telex: Facsimile:

INTBAFRAD 248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 64145(MCI)
AGREED at ; , as of the day and year first above written.

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By

Waceya [Dopey
Authorized Representative

Name: Boita Mice yA
Title: Ace CourTey Mave er

PUBLIC ENTERPRISE FOR STATE ROADS

By

   

orized Representative
Name: Avsvsmone \rolvoy
Tite: ACTING BipecroR
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objectives of the Project are to improve: (a) transport connectivity for road users along
Corridor VIII between Skopje and Deve Bair, and (b) the Borrower’s asset management and
planning function.

The Project consists of the following parts:

Part I: Construction of Corridor VIII

 

Construction of the express road along the east section of the Corridor VIII between
Rankovce and Kriva Palanka.

Part II: Establishment of Bridge Management System and Institutional Support

1. Strengthening of the Borrower’s institutional capacity to manage and maintain the
Guarantor’s bridge assets through, inter alia, the creation of a bridge management
system, including the development of a bridge maintenance and investment plan.

2. Support to the Borrower’s capacity development and Project implementation through,
inter alia: (a) the provision of technical assistance to strengthen the technical capacity
of PMT; and (b) the carrying out of: (i) independent technical audits of the civil works
carried out under Part I of the Project; (ii) a beneficiary satisfaction survey; and (iii)
mid-term and impact evaluation surveys.
-6-

SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Section I. Implementation Arrangements

Institutional Arrangements.

The Borrower shall operate and maintain at all times during Project implementation a
Project Management Team (the PMT), with competent staff in adequate numbers, and with
qualifications, experience, functions, responsibilities (including responsibilities for the
Project’s overall management), funds, facilities, services and resources acceptable to the
Bank.

The Borrower shall: (a) carry out the Project in accordance with the requirements set forth
in the Project Operational Manual (POM); and (b) not assign, amend, abrogate, or waive
the POM or any of its provisions, except with the prior written approval of the Bank. In
case of any conflict between the terms of the POM and those of this Agreement, the terms
and conditions of this Agreement shall prevail.

The Borrower shall operate and maintain the investments supported under Part I of the
Project, with due diligence and efficiency, and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, technical, financial, economic, environmental and social standards and
practices, and the applicable provisions of this Agreement.

Anti-Corruption

The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions
of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.

Safeguards.

The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the requirements, criteria,
organizational arrangements and operational procedures set forth in the RPF, ESIA and
ESMP.

For the purposes of carrying out Part I of the Project and prior to the commencement of
any rehabilitation, improvement, or construction works in respect of any given road section
under said Part of the Project, the Borrower shall: (i) prepare, disclose, and furnish to the
Bank the pertinent RAP, in accordance with the RPF, if, as a result of the definition of the
precise sitting alignment of the works to be carried out under Part 1 of the Project, it is
determined by the Bank that Resettlement will be involved; and (ii) immediately thereafter,
carry out the pertinent works in accordance with the provisions of said RAP and in a
manner acceptable to the Bank, including full payment of Resettlement compensation and
the provision of Resettlement assistance to Displaced Persons prior to their displacement.

The Borrower shall operate and maintain, at all times during Project implementation, a
socially inclusive grievance redress mechanism, satisfactory to the Bank, in such a manner
as to enable the implementation of the Project in accordance with the RPF, RAP(s), ESIA
and ESMP.
The Borrower shall not amend, suspend, waive or abrogate any of the provisions of the
RPF, RAPs, ESIA and ESMP without prior approval of the Bank.

The Borrower shall, prior to the beginning of any activities involving land acquisition (as
part of any Resettlement) under the Project, ensure that a monitoring and evaluation
specialist, with qualification and experience, and under terms of reference, acceptable to
the Bank, is hired to provide assistance to the Borrower in connection with any land
acquisition under the Project.

The Borrower shall ensure that the terms of reference for any consultancy in respect of the
development of the bridge maintenance and investment plan to be carried out under Part II
of the Project shall be satisfactory to the Bank following its review thereof, and, to that
end, such terms of reference shall duly incorporate the requirements of the applicable
Safeguard Policies, then in force, as applied to the advice conveyed through such technical
assistance.

Section IT. Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

Project Reports

The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project
Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and
on the basis of indicators acceptable to the Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the
period of one calendar year, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than one month
after the end of the period covered by such report.

Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits

The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions.

The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five days after the
end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering
the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.

The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the provisions
of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements shall
cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for
each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of
such period.

Section III. Procurement

General

Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. All goods, works and non-consulting
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and
with the provisions of this Section.

Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to the
corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the Procurement Guidelines, or
Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.

Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services

International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of International Competitive Bidding.

Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. The
following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used for
procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for those contracts specified in
the Procurement Plan: (a) Shopping; and (b) Direct Contracting.

Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services

 

Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality and
Cost-based Selection.

Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following methods, other
than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for procurement of consultants’
services for those contracts which are specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based
Selection; (b) Selection under a Fixed Budget; (c) Least Cost Selection; (d) Selection based
on Consultants’ Qualifications; (e) Single-source Selection of consulting firms; (f)
Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for the
Selection of Individual Consultants; and (g) Single-source procedures for the Selection of
Individual Consultants.

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts, which shall be subject to the Bank’s
Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.

Section IV. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

 

General

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as the
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World Bank Disbursement
Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as
-9.

made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.

2. The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures
in each Category.

Category Amount of the Loan
Allocated
expressed in EUR

(1) Goods, works, non- 82,792,500
consulting services,
207,500
Section 2.07 (b) of the General
Conditions

consultants’ services,
Amount due pursuant to
Section 2.08(c) of this
Agreement

Training and Operating Costs
TOTAL AMOUNT [igo Cis TOSS

under the Project
3. For purposes of this table:

    
  
 

   

Percentage of Expenditures
to be financed

        
 

  

 
    
 

 
 

(2) Front-end Fee

   

Amount payable pursuant to
Section 2.03 of _ this
Agreement in accordance with

 
 
 
 
  

       
 
 

       
  

  

(3) Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar premium

   
     

(a) the term “Operating Costs” means the incremental costs, that would not have occurred
absent the Project, to finance: (i) operation and maintenance of vehicle, repairs, fuel
and spare parts; (ii) equipment and computer maintenance, including hardware and
software; (111) communication costs and shipment costs (whenever these costs are not
included in the cost of goods); (iv) office supplies and equipment; (v) rent for office
facilities; (vi) utilities; and (vii) travel and per diem costs for the Borrower’s technical
staff carrying out supervisory and quality control activities;

(b) the term “Training” means expenditures (other than consultant and non-consultant
services) for: (i) reasonable travel, room, board and per diem expenditures incurred by
trainers and trainees in connection with their training and by training facilitators; (ii)
course fees; (iti) training facility rentals; and (iv) training material preparation,
acquisition, reproduction and distribution expenses not otherwise covered under this
paragraph; and

(c) the term “VAT” means Value-added tax.
B. Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

1, Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made for
payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.
-10-

2. The Closing Date is December 31, 2020.

Section V.

(b)

Other Undertakings

Financial Covenants

Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, beginning March 31, 2015, the Borrower
Shall not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of the revenues and
expenditures of the Borrower shows that the estimated net revenues of the
Borrower for each fiscal year during the term of the debt to be incurred shall be at
least 1.2 times the estimated debt service requirements of the Borrower in such
year on all debt of the Borrower including the debt to be incurred.

For the purposes of this Section:

(1) The term “debt” means any indebtedness of the Borrower
maturing by its terms more than one year after the date on which it is
originally incurred.

(ii) Debt shall be deemed to be incurred:

(iii)

(iv)

(A)

(B)

under a loan contract or agreement or other instrument
providing for such debt or for the modification of its terms
of payment on the date of such contract, agreement or
instrument; and

under a Guarantee Agreement, on the date the agreement
providing for such guarantee has been entered into.

The term “net revenues” means the difference between:

(A)

(B)

the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations
and net non-operating income; and

the sum of all expenses related to operations including
administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and payments
in lieu of taxes, but excluding provision for depreciation,
other non-cash operating charges and interest and other
charges on debt.

The term “net non-operating income” means the difference
between:

(A)

(B)

revenues from all sources other than those related to
operations; and

expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes,
incurred in the generation of revenues in (A) above.
-]1-

(v) The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount
of repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and
interest and other charges on, debt.

(vi) | The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast prepared by the
Borrower not earlier than twelve months prior to the incurrence of
the debt in question, which both the Bank and the Borrower accept
as reasonable and as to which the Bank has notified the Borrower
of its acceptability, provided that no event has occurred since such
notification which has, or may reasonably be expected in the
future to have, a material adverse effect on the financial condition
or future operating results of the Borrower.

(vii) | Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to
value, in terms of the currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in
another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of the
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency
is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of
servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis of
a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.

(a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, beginning March 31, 2015, the Borrower
shall maintain a ratio of current assets to current liabilities of not less than 1 (one).

(b) Before June 30 in each of its fiscal years, the Borrower shall, on the basis of
forecasts prepared by the Borrower and satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it
would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and
the next following fiscal year and shall furnish to the Bank the results of such
review upon its completion.

(c) If any such review shows that the Borrower would not meet the requirements set
forth in paragraph (a) for the Borrower's fiscal years covered by such review, the
Borrower shall promptly take all necessary measures (including, without
limitation, adjustments of the structure or levels of its rates) in order to meet such
requirements.

(d) For the purposes of this Section:

(1) The term “current assets” means cash, all assets which could in the
ordinary course of business be converted into cash within twelve months,
including account receivable, marketable securities, inventories and
pre-paid expenses properly chargeable to operating expenses within the
next fiscal year.

(11) The term “current liabilities” means all liabilities which will become due
and payable or could under circumstances then existing be called for
payment within twelve months, including accounts payable, customer
advances, debt service requirements, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes,
and dividends.
(iii)

(iv)

-12-

The term “debt service requirements” means the aggregate amount of
repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest and
other charges on, debt.

Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to value,
in terms of the currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in another currency,
such valuation shall be made on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of
exchange at which such other currency is, at the time of such valuation,
obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of
such rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
-13-

SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule

l. The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage
of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date
(“Installment Share”). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a)
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment
Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary,
to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency

Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date Installment Share
Expressed as a Percentage

On each May 15 and November 15
Beginning November 15, 2023
through May 15, 2043 2.5%

2. If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment
Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal
Payment Date shall be determined as follows:

      
          

(a) To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance as
of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.

(b) Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original
Installment Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.

3. (a) Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any Principal
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding
on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall
be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
-14-

(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on
or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such
billing system.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved Currency,
the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any Principal
Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to the
Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the
Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating
to the Conversion; or (it) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.

If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan
Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
-15-

APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

1.

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud
and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”, dated
October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.

“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers” dated J anuary
2011 (revised July 2014).

“Corridor VIII” means the portion of the interstate transit corridor which is 660 km long
and runs east-west connecting the Guarantor’s territory to the sea ports in Albania and
Bulgaria.

“Decision” means the Guarantor’s Decision on Establishing a Public Enterprise for State
Roads (Decision number 41-10147/1 of December 28, 2012 (Official Gazette 1/13))
pursuant to which the Borrower was established and is operating.

“Deve Bair” means a border crossing in the Guarantor’s territory.

“Displaced Person” means a person who, on account of the execution of the Project, has
experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts caused by
Resettlement under the Project.

“ESIA” means the Borrower’s Environmental and Social Impact Assessment, dated May
2015, as published in InfoShop on May 26, 2015, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank, and in line with the Guarantor’s national legislation, consisting of, inter alia, the
procedures for the environmental and social screening, management, and mitigating
measures, and including, inter alia: (i) a detailed description of the road sections where
Project activities are to be carried out; (ii) the potential adverse environmental and social
impacts of said activities; (iii) an analysis of the applicable legislation of the Borrower and
the Guarantor in mitigating said adverse environmental and social impacts; and (iv) an
evaluation of alternatives and design of appropriate mitigation, management, and
monitoring measures.

“ESMP” means the Borrower’s Environmental and Social Management Plan, acceptable
to the Bank, describing environmental and social mitigation, monitoring and institutional
measures for any of the activities carried under the Project.

“Kriva Palanka” means a Municipality in the Guarantor’s territory.
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and Development

General Conditions for Loans”, dated March 12, 2012, with the modifications set forth in
Section II of this Appendix.
12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

17.

18.

19,

20.

-16-

“Guarantor” means FYR Macedonia.

“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and
Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers” dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).

“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, dated June
24, 2015 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph
1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in
accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.

“Project Operational Manual” or “POM” means the Borrower’s manual for the Project,
acceptable to the Bank and consistent of: (a) a description of the activities and timetable of
actions to be carried out under the Project; (b) the respective roles and responsibilities of
staff of the PMT; and (c) the fiduciary, technical, operational and safeguard aspects and
procedures for implementation of the Project, including: (i) the financial management
procedures (budgeting, accounting and internal control, disbursement and flow of funds,
financial reporting, annual reports, internal and external audit arrangements procedures and
including the Project specific chart of accounts); (ii) the procurement procedures; (iii) the
monitoring and evaluation arrangements; (iv) the safeguard requirements and procedures;
and (v) all other fiduciary and administrative arrangements and terms of reference
necessary for the implementation of the Project, as the same may be amended from time to
time with the prior written agreement of the Bank.

“Project Management Team” or “PMT” means the Borrower’s team referred to in
Section I.A.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Rankovce” means a Municipality in the Guarantor’s territory.

“RAP” means any of the Bank’s resettlement action plans, acceptable to the Bank, to be
prepared and disclosed by the Bank and the Borrower, and containing, inter alia, a program
of actions, measures and policies for compensation and assistance of Displaced Persons,
including budget and cost estimates, and sources of funding, together with adequate
institutional, monitoring and reporting arrangements capable of ensuring proper
implementation of, and regular feedback on compliance with its terms, for each site or road
section; “RAPs” means the plural thereof.

“Resettlement” means the impact of an involuntary taking of land under the Project, which
taking causes affected persons to have their: (i) standard of living adversely affected; or
(it) right, title or interest in any house, land (including premises, agricultural and grazing
land) or any other fixed or movable asset acquired or possessed, temporarily or
permanently; or (iii) access to productive assets adversely affected, temporarily or
permanently; or (iv) business, occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely
affected, temporarily or permanently.

“Resettlement Policy Framework” or “RPF” means the Borrower’s framework dated April
2015, and publicly disclosed on May 11, 2015, in form and substance acceptable to the
Bank and in line with the Guarantor’s national legislation, outlining general
implementation procedures, mitigation measures and monitoring procedures for
21.

22.

-17-

Resettlement under the Project, including the procedures for the preparation and
implementation of RAPs, when applicable, as said framework may be amended from time
to time with the Bank’s prior written approval.

“Safeguard Policies” means the Bank’s operational policies and procedures set forth in the
Bank’s Operational Manual under OP/BPs 4.01, 4.04, 4.09, 4.10, 4.1 1, 4.12, 4.36, 4.37,

7.50 and 7.60 as said manual is published under www. WorldAssociation.org/opmanual.

“Skopje” means the Guarantor’s capital city.

Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions

 

The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:

In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section numbers
are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.

Section 3.01. (Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
“Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge

(a) The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at the rate
specified in the Loan Agreement (the “Front-end Fee”).

(b) The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the Unwithdrawn Loan
Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the “Commitment Charge”).
The Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the
Loan Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Loan Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be
payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date.”

Section 5.09. (a) is modified to read as follows:

“(a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system and prepare financial statements (“Financial Statements”) in accordance with
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, in a manner
adequate to reflect its operations, resources and expenditures, as well as the
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.”

In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and paragraphs
are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in paragraph 2 above.

The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following definition
of “Commitment Charge”, and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs accordingly:

“19. “Commitment Charge” means the commitment charge specified in the Loan
Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b).”
-18-

In the renumbered paragraph 44 (originally paragraph 43) of the Appendix, the definition
of “Financial Statements” is modified to read as follows:

“AG, “Financial Statements” means the financial statements referred to in Section 5.09.”

In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the definition
of “Front-end Fee” is modified by replacing the reference to Section 3.01 with
Section 3.01 (a).

In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the definition
of the term “Loan Payment” is modified to read as follows:

“68. “Loan Payment” means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the Bank
pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including (but not limited
to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-end Fee, the
Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any prepayment
premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of a Conversion, the
Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable upon the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding Amount payable by the
Borrower.”

In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the definition
of “Payment Date” is modified by deleting the word “is” and inserting the words “and
Commitment Charge are” after the word “interest”.
