Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

 

 

CTF LOAN NUMBER TF019266

Clean Technology Fund
Loan Agreement

(Clean and Efficient Energy Project)
between

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as an implementing entity of the Clean Technology Fund

and

OFFICE NATIONAL DE L’ELECTRICITE ET DE L’EAU POTABLE

Dated July 2, 2015
 

CTF LOAN NUMBER TF019266

CLEAN TECHNOLOGY FUND

AGREEMENT dated July 2, 2015, entered into between:

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“World
Bank”), acting not in its individual capacity but solely in its capacity as an implementing
entity of the Clean Technology Fund (“CTF”), and OFFICE NATIONAL DE
L’ELECTRICITE ET DE L’EAU POTABLE (“Borrower”).

The Borrower and the World Bank hereby agree as follows:

1.01.

1.02.

2.01.

2.02.

2.03.

2.04.

Article I
Standard Conditions; Definitions

The Standard Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.

Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the Standard Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.

Article II
Loan

The World Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set
forth or referred to in this Agreement, the amount of twenty three million nine
hundred fifty thousand United States Dollars ($23,950,000) (“Loan”), to assist in
financing the project described in Schedule | to this Agreement (‘*Project’’).

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

The Loan is funded out of the resources made available to the World Bank as an
implementing entity of the CTF. In accordance with Section 3.02 of the Standard
Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement), the World Bank’s
payment obligations in connection with this Agreement are limited to the amount of
funds made available to it from the CTF trust fund, and the Borrower’s right to
withdraw the Loan proceeds is subject to the availability of such funds.

The Management Fee payable by the Borrower, pursuant to Section 4.01(b) of the
Standard Conditions, on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance shall be equal to eighteen
one hundredth of one percent (0.18%) per annum.
2.05.

2.06.

2.07.

2.08.

3.01.

3.02.

4.01.

4.02.

5.01.

-2-

The Service Charge payable by the Borrower on the Withdrawn Loan Balance
shall be equal to one-fourths of one percent (1/4 of 1%) per annum.

The Payment Dates are May | and November | in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the repayment
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

The Payment Currency is USD.

Article Ill
The Project

The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end,
the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of
Article II of the Standard Conditions.

Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the World Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

Article IV
Additional Remedies

The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that the
Basic Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived
so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower to perform any
of its obligations under this Agreement, or to achieve the objectives of the Project.

The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that the
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs.

Article V
Effectiveness; Termination

The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) the IBRD Loan Agreement has been executed and delivered and all
conditions precedent to its effectiveness (other than the effectiveness of

this Agreement) have been satisfied or waived; and

(b) the Borrower has adopted the Project Operational Manual, in form and
substance satisfactory to the World Bank.
5.02.

6.01.

6.02.

-3-

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred twenty (120) days after the
date of this Agreement.

Article VI
Borrower’s Representative; Addresses

The Borrower’s Representative referred to in Section 10.02 of the Standard
Conditions is the Director General.

The Borrower’s Address referred to in Section 10.01 of the Standard Conditions
iS:

Office National de |’Electricité et de Eau Potable
Avenue Mohamed Belhassan El Ouazzani

10220 Rabat

Kingdom of Morocco

Facsimile: 212-537-75-9 1-06

The World Bank’s Address referred to in Section 10.01 of the Standard Conditions
iS:

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America

Cable: Telex: Facsimile:

INTBAFRAD 248423 (MCI) or 1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 64145 (MCI)
-4-

AGREED at Rabat, Morocco, as of the day and year first above written.

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as an implementing entity of the

Clean Technology Fund

 

Name: Mi¢hael Hamaide

Title: Senior Country Officer

OFFICE NATIONAL DE L’ELECTRICITE ET
DE L’EAU POTABLE _ oven

 

Name: Ali Fassi Fihri

Title: Directeur Général
-5-

SCHEDULE |!

Project Description

The objective of the Project is to improve the capacity of the Borrower to supply
and dispatch clean electricity and to meet the demand of targeted customers efficiently in
the Project Area.

The Project consists of the following parts:

Part I: Support to the Borrower’s Solar PV Program

1.

2.

First phase of the Borrower’s Solar PV Program (the “Noor-Tafilalt Project”)
in the Project Area

(a)

(b)

(c)

Design and construction of a 25 MW solar PV plant near each of the towns
of Erfoud, Zagoura and Missour, through a sole EPC and O&M contract
to design, construct, operate and maintain the three plants.

Construction of the electricity evacuation lines for each of the three solar
PV plants.

Construction of the access roads for each of the three solar PV plants.

Enabling environment for private participation in distributed PV generation:

(a)

(b)

Carrying out of a benchmark study on private sector participation in the
solar PV market.

Strengthening the technical capacities of selected staff of the Borrower
regarding solar PV development and the setting up of partnership with
private sector in such area, through the provision of technical advisory
services and training, and carrying out of international study tours.

Part II: Planning and Dispatching of Renewable Energies

1.

Renewable energy dispatch center in the Project Area

Setting up of a renewable energy dispatch center consisting of software and
hardware, co-located with the existing national load dispatch center of the
Borrower in Casablanca, to ensure optimal power dispatch and protection of the
national power grid.
-6-

2. Increasing the Borrower’s capacity to perform long-term power planning
incorporating energy efficiency and technological improvement

Supporting the Borrower’s planning department through the purchase of state of
the art demand forecasting tools and the provision of training and technical
advisory services.

Part III: Utility Demand-Side Management and Revenue Protection Program

1. Smart Meters Program in the Project Area

(a) Acquisition of 63,600 time-of-use meters for low voltage customers, and
of 21,600 smart meters for extra-high, high and medium voltage customers
and related metering control equipment.

(b) Installation of the time-of-use meters and smart meters.

2. Deepening and identifying additional opportunities for utility-implemented
energy efficiency and demand side management programs

Carrying out of a study regarding energy demand, which shall identify options,
define priorities and set forth an action plan for selected energy efficiency and
demand side management programs to be implemented by the Borrower.

Part IV: Technical Assistance

Strengthening the technical capacities of selected staff of the Borrower through the
provision of training and technical advisory services in the following areas: (i) best
practices by system operators to manage large shares of renewable energy at the
wholesale and distribution level; (ii) new technology trends in control and
performance capabilities of renewable energy technologies and interconnection
standards; (ili) preparation of standard bidding and contractual documents
covering technical, legal and procurement aspects in the field of renewable energy;
(iv) best practices in the development, operations and maintenance of solar PV,
wind and other renewable energy projects; (v) emerging regulatory practices for
private participation in renewable energy project; and (vi) technology trends and
best practices in smart meters and smart grids.
-7-

SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Section I. Institutional and Other Arrangements

A.

I.

Institutional Arrangements.

The Electricity Branch Financing Department shall be responsible for the overall
coordination of Project implementation. The Electricity Branch Financing
Department shall collaborate closely with all other subdivisions of the Borrower
involved in the implementation of the Project, as described in the Project
Operational Manual. The Borrower shall maintain throughout the implementation
of the Project the Electricity Branch Financing Department and al! other
subdivisions of the Borrower involved in the implementation of the Project, with
qualified managers, competent staff and adequate resources.

The Borrower shal! implement the Project in accordance with the Project
Operational Manual. The Borrower shall not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or
waive any provision of the Project Operational Manual without prior written
approval of the World Bank.

Anti-Corruption.

The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.

Safeguards.

The Borrower shall: (i) implement the Project in accordance with the ESMF, the
RPF, the ESIAs, the EMPs and the RAPs, and shall not amend, suspend, abrogate,
repeal or waive any provision of the ESMF, the EMPs, the RPF and the RAPs,
without prior written approval of the World Bank and subject to compliance with
applicable consultation and public disclosure requirements of the Bank; and
(ii) ensure that adequate information on the implementation of the ESMF, the
EMPs, the RPF and the RAPs is suitably included in the Project Reports referred
to in Section II.A of this Schedule, including details of: (a) measures taken in
furtherance of the ESMF, the RPF, the ESIAs, the EMPs and the RAPs;
(b) conditions, if any, which interfere or threaten to interfere with the smooth
implementation of the ESMF, the RPF, the ESIAs, the EMPs and the RAPs; and
(c) remedial measures taken or required to be taken to address such conditions.

The Borrower shall ensure that all measures identified and described in the ESMF,
the ESIAs, the EMPs, the RAPs and the RPF are taken in a timely manner.
The Borrower shall:

(a) prior to commencing civil works for any activity under the Project and
when required under the ESMF and the EMPs, carry out specific public
consultation in form and in substance satisfactory to the Bank; and

(b) ensure that the lay-out, construction and management of the relevant
electricity evacuation line are consistent with the provisions of the ESMF
and thereafter carry out the applicable EMP.

Prior to commencement of civil works for any activity of the Project involving
involuntary resettlement or involuntary acquisition of land, the Borrower shall
prepare and implement appropriate RAP or RAPs, as the case may be, for
compensation, or resettlement, in accordance with the RPF, such RAP or RAPs to
be in form and substance satisfactory to the World Bank.

In the event that any provision of the ESMF, the RPF, the ESIAs, the EMPs and
the RAPs shall conflict with any provision under this Agreement, the terms of this
Agreement shall prevail.

Section II. Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation

A.

Project Reports; Completion Report

The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.06 of the Standard
Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the World Bank. Each
Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be
furnished to the World Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the
period covered by such report.

Financial Management; Financial Reports; Audits

The Borrower shall ensure that a financial management system is maintained in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of the Standard Conditions.

The Borrower shall ensure that interim unaudited financial reports for the Project
are prepared and furnished to the World Bank not later than forty-five (45) days
after the end of each calendar semester, covering the semester, in form and
substance satisfactory to the World Bank.

The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements for the Project audited in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 (b) of the Standard Conditions.
Each such audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal
year of the Borrower. The audited Financia! Statements for each such period shall
_9-

be furnished to the World Bank not later than six months after the end of such
period.

Section II. Procurement

General

Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.

Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the World Bank of particular
contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in Sections I] and III of the
Procurement Guidelines.

Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services

International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.

Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than
International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, works and non-
consulting services. The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under
which such methods may be used:

(a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the following additional
provisions:

(i) the bidding documents include explicitly the bid evaluation
method, award criteria and bidder qualification criteria;

(1i) technical, administrative and financial envelopes are opened
immediately after the bid opening session has started and prices
are read aloud;

(iii) | the bids are evaluated on the basis of the price and any other
criteria expressed either in pass/fail terms or in monetary terms
and disclosed in the bidding document;

(iv) contracts are awarded to the qualified bidder who has submitted
-10-

the least-cost evaluated and substantially responsive bid as
stipulated in the bidding document; and

(v) standard bidding documents and bid evaluation reports found
acceptable by the Bank are used.

(b) Shopping; and
(c) Direct Contracting.
C, Review by the World Bank of Procurement Decisions

The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
World Bank’s Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by
the World Bank.

Section IV. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. General

l. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article III of the Standard Conditions, this Section and such
additional instructions as the World Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the World Bank and as made applicable to
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as
set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.

2. The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocations of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category:

    

   
  
 

Amount of the
Loan Allocated
(expressed in
USD)

Category

    
  

  
    
   

Percentage of Expenditures to be
Financed
(exclusive of Taxes)

  

(1) Goods, works and 23,950,000
non-consulting
services under
Part I.1(a) of the

100%

  

Project
-ll-

B.

1.

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be
made:

(a) for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $4,790,000
equivalent may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or
after April 1, 2015, for Eligible Expenditures; or

(b) for any payment for Taxes levied by or in the territory of the Member
Country.

The Closing Date is November 30, 2020.
-12-

SCHEDULE 3

Repayment Schedule

Date Payment Due Principal Amount of the Loan
repayable
expressed as a percentage
commencing May 1, 2025, to and including 1%
November 1, 2034
commencing May 1, 2035, to and including 2%
November |, 2054

      
         
-13-

APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

I.

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.

“Associated Facilities” means the electricity evacuation lines and the access roads
to be constructed under Part I.! (b) and Part I.1(c) of the Project, respectively, for
each of the three solar PV plants to be constructed near the towns of Erfoud,
Zagoura and Missour, respectively.

“Basic Legislation” means the Law No. 40-09 of the Guarantor as promulgated
pursuant to the Law (“Dahir”) No. 1-1 1-160 of the Guarantor, dated September 29,
2011, and the Decree No. 2-12-89 of the Guarantor, dated April 5, 2012, pursuant
to which the Borrower has been established and is operating as a public entity
(établissement public).

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.

“EMP” means each of the Environmental Management Plan for the Erfoud site,
and disclosed in the World Bank’s Infoshop on February 18, 2015, the
Environmental Management Plan for the Missour site and disclosed in the World
Bank’s Infoshop on February 18, 2015, the Environmental Management Plan for
the Zagora site and disclosed in the World Bank’s Infoshop on February 18, 2015,
and each Environmental Management Plan, satisfactory to the World Bank and to
be adopted by the Borrower in accordance with the terms of the ESMF, describing
the mitigation, monitoring and institutional measures to be implemented in order
to eliminate, offset or reduce any adverse environmental and social aspects in
respect of the activities under the Project.

“EPC” means engineering, procurement and construction.

‘“ESIA” means each of the Environmental and Social Impact Assessment for the
Erfoud site, and disclosed in the World Bank’s Infoshop on February 18, 2015, the
Environmental and Social Impact Assessment for the Missour site and disclosed
in the World Bank’s Infoshop on February 18, 2015, and the Environmental and
Social Impact Assessment for the Zagora site and disclosed in the World Bank’s
Infoshop on February 18, 2015, describing potential impacts in respect of the
activities under the Project.

“ESMF” means the Environmental and Social Management Framework,
satisfactory to the World Bank and disclosed in the World Bank’s Infoshop on
15.

-14-

February 18, 2015, setting forth procedures for the environmental and social
screening of the activities to be carried out under the Project regarding the
Associated Facilities, including the mitigating measures to be prescribed in the
EMPs as well as the specific public consultation measures to be carried out prior
to commencing civil works.

“Guarantor” means the Kingdom of Morocco.

“IBRD Loan Agreement” means the agreement between the Borrower and the
World Bank for Parts I.1 (a) and I.1 (b), Part 1.2, Part II, Part II.1 (a), Part II.2 and
Part IV of the Project, of the same date as this Agreement, as such agreement may
be amended from time to time. “IBRD Loan Agreement” includes all appendices,
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Loan Agreement.

‘(O&M” means operations and maintenance.

“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers” dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).

“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, dated
March 20, 2015, and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines
and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from
time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.

‘Project Area” means the Regions of Chaouia-Ouardigha, Doukkala-Abda, Fés-
Boulemane, Gharb-Chrarda-Beni Hssen, Grand Casablanca, Marrakech-Tensift-
Al Haouz, Meknés-Tafilalet, Oriental, Rabat-Salé-Zemmour-Zaér, Souss-Massa-
Draa, Tadla-Azilal, Tanger-Tétouan, Taza-Al Hoceima-Taounate, of the
Guarantor, and the Provinces of Tan-Tan, Tata and Guelmin of the Guarantor.

“Project Operational Manual” means the manual describing the implementation,
financial management, procurement, disbursement, monitoring and evaluation,
and reporting arrangements for the Project, to be adopted by the Borrower, and
referred to in paragraph 2, Section I.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“PV” means photovoltaic technology.

“RAP” means each of the Resettlement Action Plan for the Erfoud site, and
disclosed in the World Bank’s Infoshop on February 18, 2015, the Resettlement
Action Plan for the Missour site and disclosed in the World Bank’s Infoshop on
February 18, 2015, the Resettlement Action Plan for the Zagora site and disclosed
in the World Bank’s Infoshop on February 18, 2015, and each Resettlement Action
Plan, satisfactory to the World Bank, to be prepared and adopted by the Borrower
in accordance with the terms of the RPF, describing the details for land acquisition,
19,

-15-

resettlement and rehabilitation in respect of the activities to be carried out under
the Project regarding the Associated Facilities, as applicable.

“RPF” means the Resettlement Policy Framework satisfactory to the World Bank
and adopted by the Borrower on February 17, 2015 and disclosed in the World
Bank’s Infoshop on February 18, 2015, outlining the modalities for land
acquisition, resettlement and rehabilitation in respect of the activities to be carried
out under the Project regarding the Associated Facilities, as well as details for the
preparation of the RAPs.

“Standard Conditions” means the Standard Conditions for Loans Made by the
World Bank Out of the Climate Investment Funds, dated February 18, 2014.
