|

Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

~

OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

 

 

LOAN NUMBER 8508-AR

Loan Agreement

(Protecting Vulnerable People Against Noncommunicable Diseases Project)
between
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

pated WlweER F 201.5

 

Span ane ata pan ee area ARN ANA FS
LOAN AGREEMENT

Agreement dated Weqo peg 4_, 2015 between ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01. The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.

1.02. Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.

ARTICLE H — LOAN

2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of three hundred fifty million Dollars
($350,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to
this Agreement (“Project”).

2.02. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

2.03. The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.

2.04. ‘The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.

2.05. The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General |
Conditions. |

2.06. The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.
2.07.

2.08.

3.01.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

(a)

(b)

(c)

The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of
limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by
the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.

Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.

Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts
required to pay any premium payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c)
of the General Conditions up to the amount allocated from time to time for
the purpose in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE II — PROJECT

The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower, through MSN, shall carry out the Project, with the assistance
of the Participating Provinces (as provided in the corresponding Framework
Agreements), in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions. ,

 
3.02.

4.01.

4.02.

5.01.

6.01.

6.02.

6.03.

Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.0! of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK

The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that any
Participating Province shall have failed to comply with any of its obligations under
its Framework Agreement.

The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that the
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a
period of 60 days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the
Borrower.

ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and twenty (120) days after
the date of this Agreement.

ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Economy and Public Finance.
The Borrower’s Address is:

Ministerio de Economia y Finanzas Publicas
Hipolito Yrigoyen 250

C1086 AAB, Buenos Aires

Argentina

Cable: Telex: Facsimile:
MINISTERIO

DE ECONOMIA 121942-AR (5411) 4349-8815
Baires

The Bank’s Address is:

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W. ;

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America
 

Cable address: Telex: Facsimile:

INTBAFRAD 248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 64145(MCT)

AGREED at idk e OVAL

as of the day
and year first above written.

    

ARGENTINE REPUBLIC

\ Authorized Representative

Name: J, OS. HET sce

Title: __ (SiR OPECTGE

Sa aan Saat eRe ae TORE Naa ne, Sin Rand Saad ARs Se a Shas BA tate ath Ce ER SQ we Ree

|
4

 
SCHEDULE 1

Project Description

The objective of the Project is to contribute to: (i) improving the readiness of public
health facilities to deliver higher quality NCD services for Vulnerable Population Groups
and expanding the scope of selected services; and (ii) protecting Vulnerable Population
Groups against prevalent NCD risk factors.

The Project consists of the following parts:

Part 1: Improving the Readiness of Public Health Care Facilities to Provide Higher

Quality Services for NCD for Vulnerable Population Groups and Expanding the

Scope of Selected Services

Financing of payments under the Eligible Expenditure Programs (EEPs) in support of:

(a) changes of the model of care of provincial health care networks, to generate the
conditions needed to ensure effective access to quality health care to Vulnerable Population
Groups; and (b) the development of the capacity to provide early detection of colon cancer
. and increase the scope of screening services beyond what is currently covered, including,
inter alia: (1) hands-on training of PHC facility personnel on early detection and effective
control of NCDs; (ii) creation, adaptation, distribution, and implementation of NCD
clinical guidelines at PHC facilities and hospitals; (iii) training of PHC facility personnel
to adopt electronic medical records; (iv) seminars on NCDs for MSP personnel; (v)
consultations and working meetings between health center and hospital teams working with
chronic patients to ensure the continuity and coordination of services; (vi) development of
administrative procedures to manage integrated lines of care for NCDs and training of
administrative personnel to implement them; (vii) the development, implementation, and
monitoring of new supervision procedures for PHC facilities; (viii) the development and
implementation of new procedures for patients’ flows within the health care networks; (ix)
improvements in managerial guidelines; (x) design and implementation of communication
procedures between the PHC facilities and chronic patients to ensure their programmed
care; (xi) NCD education sessions and sessions to support self-care for chronic patients at
PHC level; and (xii) updates and improvements in information systems and data bases.

Part 2: Protecting Vulnerable Population.Groups Against Prevalent NCD Risk

Factors

Financing of payments under the Eligible Expenditure Programs (EEPs) in support of the
implementation of population-based multisectoral interventions at provincial and
municipal levels, focused on healthy diets (i.e. promotion of fresh fruits and vegetable

 
intake and reduction of sodium and trans-fat intake), physical activity, and tobacco control
with a focus on Vulnerable Population Groups, including:

(a) the carrying out of activities aimed at improving the local environment to promote
physical activity, including, inter alia, the promotion of ciclovias and active spaces
and the carrying out of training and communication activities;

(b) the carrying out of interventions aimed at promoting healthy eating habits
(particularly the reduction of sodium and trans fat intake and the promotion of fruit
and vegetable consumption) including, inter alia, the drafting and issuance of
regulations, the signing of agreements with the food industry and other actors, the
monitoring of the implementation of said agreements and regulations, and the
carrying out of training and communication activities; and

(c) the implementation of tobacco control policies.

Part 3: Supporting the National and Provincial Ministries of Health to Improve

Surveillance, Monitoring, Promotion, Prevention and Control of NCDs, Injuries, and
Their Risk Factors

Strengthening the capacity of the MSN, MSPs, and the autonomous agencies under their
responsibility, to design, implement, and monitor policies aimed at health promotion,
prevention and control of NCDs, injuries and their risk factors; and provision of support
for Project implementation, al! through: (a) the procurement of goods; (b) the carrying out
of small works to install lab equipment; (c) the provision of technical assistance; (d) the
provision of pharmaceutical products; (e) the financing of Operating Costs; and (f) the
carrying out of training activities.

Bo
Section I.

A.

SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Implementation Arrangements

[astitutional Arrangements

The Borrower shall, through MSN:

(a)

(b)

maintain during the execution of the Project: (i) a technical coordination
unit - DNCD; (ii) an operational coordination unit (CU); and (iii) an
international health financing unit (UFI-S), to manage Project
implementation on behalf of MSN, all with functions and responsibilities
acceptable to the Bank and staffed with a coordinator, technical experts
(including management-for-results specialized staff) and other personnel
in number and with qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank;
and

cause the Participating Provinces, through the pertinent Framework
Agreement, to maintain during the execution of the Project, within the
respective MSPs, technical staff in number and with qualifications and
experience acceptable to both the Borrower, through MSN, and the Bank.

For the purposes of implementing the Project, the Borrower, through MSN, shall:

(a)

(b)

(c)

prior to providing financing to a respective Participating Province, enter
into an agreement (the Framework Agreement) with said Participating
Province, setting forth the technical, financial, administrative, safeguard
and fiduciary aspects of the national and provincial participation in the
implementation and use of funds under the Project, including the
Participating Province’s obligation to implement Parts 1 and 2 of the
Project in accordance with the Anti-Corruption Guidelines;

every year, starting immediately after the Effective Date for the first year

of the Project, and on January 1 thereafter, enter into a performance
agreement (the Annual Performance Agreement) with each Participating
Province, setting forth annual work programs and resource requirements
for the implementation of the Project, all on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank;

and shall cause each Participating Province, when applicable in
accordance with the provisions of the Indigenous Peoples Planning
Framework (through the respective Framework Agreement), to prepare (if
An SEMA TI AnH OR OMNIA TR ANNE uBR WS Oe WB n HHM S eMC. 50m 8 case HABE

(d)

(c)

(f)

determined by the IPPF and the Bank), and carry out the applicable
Indigenous Peoples Plan in accordance with its terms;

and shall cause each Participating Province, when applicable, to
implement the Environmental and Social Management Framework;

cause each Participating Province to take all necessary actions to enable
the Borrower to comply with its pertinent obligations as set forth under
this Agreement, including those set forth or referred to in the General
Conditions and the Anti-Corruption Guidelines; and

(i) exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under each Framework
Agreement and each Annual Performance Agreement in such a manner as
to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish
the purposes of the Loan; and (ii) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
not assign, amend, abrogate, repeal, terminate, waive or fail to enforce any
Framework Agreement and/or Annual Performance Agreement or any
provision thereof.

B. Operational Manual and Operative Guidelines

L. Without limitation to the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, the
Borrower, through MSN, shall carry out, and/or cause to be carried out, the Project
in accordance with an operational manual (the Operational Manual), satisfactory
to the Bank, containing, inter alia:

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

(f)

the terms of reference, functions and responsibilities for the personnel of
the CU, DNCD, the UFI-S and the MSPs responsible for the coordination,
monitoring and evaluation of the Project;

the description of TLIs and the criteria, detailed rules and procedures for
TLIs implementation and the system to monitor compliance of the TLIs;

the procedures for the procurement of goods, works and services, as well
as for financial management and audits of the Project, including
environmental and social safeguards procedures; |

the indicators to be used in the monitoring and evaluation of the Project;

model for the Framework Agreements and Annual Performance
Agreements;

the flow and disbursement arrangements of Project funds;
(g) the Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework and indigenous Peoples
Plans, including criteria to ensure adequate and culturally appropriate
access by indigenous peoples to the Project; and

(h) the Environmental and Social Management Framework.

(a) The Borrower shall, through MSN, adopt and thereafter maintain,
operative guidelines (the Provincial Operative Guidelines), satisfactory to,
the Bank, which shall contain chapters and provisions of the Operational
Manual defining or referring to roles and responsibilities of the
Participating Provinces in the implementation of the Project. The
Provincial Operative Guidelines shall be included as an annex to the
Framework Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower, through
MSN, and each of the Participating Provinces.

(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall, through

MSN or otherwise, not amend, waive or fail to enforce the Operational
Manual or the Provincial Operative Guidelines, or any provision thereof.
In case of any conflict between the provisions of this Agreement and those
of the Operational Manual or the Provincial Operative Guidelines, the
provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.

Anti-Corruption

The Borrower, through MSN, shall ensure that the Project 1s carried out in
accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.

Verification of TLIs and EEPs Audit

The Borrower, through MSN, shall: (a) not later than six months after the Effective
Date, hire an independent verification agent under terms of reference satisfactory
to the Bank, to carry out the verification of compliance of selected TLIs (in
accordance with the provisions set forth in the Operational Manual); and (b) cause
said independent verification agent to, not later than thirty (30) days after each
verification of compliance of the pertinent TLIs has been completed, prepare and
furnish to the Borrower, through MSN, and the Bank, a report on the results of said
verification of compliance process of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request.

The Borrower, through MSN, shall: (a) not later than six months after the Effective
Date, or at later date agreed by the Bank, hire an independent auditor, with
qualifications and under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, to carry out an
audit to confirm if at least 70% of the EEPs have been executed by each of the
Participating Provinces during each calendar semester throughout the
implementation of the Project; and (b) cause said independent auditor to, not later

9

 

Alben in ps nme inte sens manish
than three months after the end of each calendar semester, prepare and furnish to
the Borrower and the Bank, a report on the results of said audit of execution of
EEPs, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shal! reasonably request.

Section II. Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

A. Project Reports

The Borrower, through MSN, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the
Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section
5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators. Each Project Report
shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank
not later than two months after the end of the period covered by such report.

B. Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits

l. The Borrower, through MSN, shall maintain, and cause the Participating Provinces
to maintain, a financial management system in accordance with the provisions of
Section 5.09 of the General Conditions.

2. Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower,
through MSN, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank, not later than 45 days after
the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project
covering the calendar quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.

3. The Borrower, through MSN, shall have its Financial Statements audited in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each
audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the
Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of such period.

Section III. Procurement
A. General

l. Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.

2. Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.

10

meta oe oy ls .

sets 8 ARTE EAR ate LE SVEN
Lad

Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts
refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and Ill of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections I, IIT, [V and V of the Consultant Guidelines,
as the case may be.

Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services

International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding procedures.

Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding,
may be used for procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for
those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) National Competitive
Bidding, subject to the applicable Special Provisions included in Part E below; (b)
Shopping; and (c) Direct Contracting.

Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services

Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.

Other Methods-.of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants’ services for those contracts which are specified in the
Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based Selection; (b) Selection under a Fixed
Budget; (c) Least Cost Selection; (d) Selection based on Consultants’
Qualifications; (e) Single-source Selection of consulting firms; (f) Procedures set
forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of
Individual Consultants; and (g) Single-source procedures for the Selection of
Individual Consultants.

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the

Bank’s Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.

iv
FE.

Special Provisions

The following Special Provisions shall apply to procurement under the Project:

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

(f)

Procurement of Goods, Works, Non-Consultant Services and Consultants’

Services (in respect of firms) shall be carried out using: (i) (A) standard bidding
documents (which bidding documents in respect of works shall include, if
applicable, a provision whereby the pertinent contractor must comply with the
pertinent provisions of: (I) the Environmental and Social Management
Framework; and (II) the corresponding Indigenous Peoples’ Plan (including the
provisions of any updated/adjusted version) or similar safeguards instrument
acceptable to the Bank); and (B) standard requests for quotations/proposals (as the
case may be), all acceptable to the Bank, which shall all include, inter alia, a
settlement of dispute provision and the pertinent provisions of the Anti-Corruption
Guidelines; (ii) model bid evaluation forms, and model quotations/proposals
evaluation forms (as the case may be); and (iii) model contract forms, all
acceptable to the Bank.

All contracts for Works,to be procured under the Project shall contain a
methodology, acceptable to the Bank, whereby the price of each said contracts
shall be adjusted through the use of price adjustment formulas, in a manner
acceptable to the Bank.

A two-envelope bidding procedure shall not be allowed in the procurement of
Goods, Works and Non-Consultant Services.

After the public opening of bids for Goods, Works and Non-Consultant Services,
information relating to the examination, clarification and evaluation of bids and
recommendations concerning awards, shall not be disclosed to bidders or other
persons not officially concerned with this process until the publication of contract
award. In addition, bidders and/or other persons not officially concerned with said
process shall not be allowed to review or make copies of other bidders’ bids.

After the public opening of Consultants’ proposals, information related to the
examination, clarification and evaluation of proposals and recommendations
concerning awards, shall not be disclosed to consultants or other persons not
officially concerned with this process until the publication of contract award
(except as provided in paragraphs 2.23 and 2.30 of the Consultants Guidelines).
In addition, consultants and/or other persons not officially concerned with said
process shall not be allowed to review or make copies of other consultants’
proposals.

Foreign bidders or foreign consultants shall not, as a condition for submitting bids

or proposals and/or for contract award: (i) be required to be registered in the
Borrower’s territory (except as provided in the standard bidding documents

12

. ae Ee RRC Roc St

anda! 1s Satta

sents Sable

+ . SoS eepoleit. hese.
CURT
+

(g)

(h)

(1)

G)

(k)

()

(m)

referred to in paragraph (a) above); (ii) be required to have a representative in the
Borrower’s territory; and (iii) be required to be associated or subcontract with
suppliers, contractors or consultants from the Borrower country.

The invitations to bid, bidding documents, minutes of bid openings, requests for
expressions of interest and the pertinent summary of the evaluation reports of bids
and proposals of all Goods, Works, Non-Consultant Services and Consultants’
Services procured by the Borrower, through MSN, shall be published in the web
page of the Borrower’s Office of National Procurement (Oficina Nacional de
Contrataciones), and in a manner acceptable to the Bank. The bidding period shall

be counted from the date of publication of the invitation to bid or the date of the -

availability of the bidding documents, whichever is later, to the date of bid
opening.

Provisions set forth in paragraphs 2.49, 2.50, 2.52, 2.53, 2.54 and 2.59 of the
Procurement Guidelines shall also be applicable to contracts for Goods, Works
and Non-Consultant Services to be procured under National Competitive Bidding
procedures.

References to bidders in one or more specialized magazines shall not be used by
the Borrower, through MSN, in determining if the bidder in respect of goods whose
bid has been determined to be the lowest evaluated bid has the capability and
resources to effectively carry out the contract as offered in the bid, as referred to
in the provision set forth in paragraph 2.58 of the Procurement Guidelines. The
provision set forth in paragraph 2.58 of the Procurement Guidelines (including the
limitation set forth herein) shall also be applicable to contracts for goods to be
procured under National Competitive Bidding procedures.

Witness prices shall not be used as a parameter for bid evaluation, bid rejection or
contract award.

The Borrower, through MSN, shall: (i) supply SEPA with the information
contained in the initial Procurement Plan within 30 days after the Project has been
approved by the Bank; and (ii) update the Procurement Plan at least every three
months, or as required by the Bank, to reflect the actual Project implementation
needs and progress and shall supply SEPA with the information contained in the
updated Procurement Plan immediately thereafter.

The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids shall apply to goods
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower in respect of contracts for goods to
be procured under International Competitive Bidding procedures.

Compliance by bidders with the norms issued by ISO with respect to any given
good procured under the Project shall not be used as parameter for contract award;

13
 

(n) Consultants shall not be required to submit bid or performance securities.

(0) Contracts of Goods, Works and Non-Consultant Services shall not be awarded to
the “most convenient” bid, but rather to the bidder whose bid has been determined:
(i) to be substantially responsive; and (ii) to offer the lowest evaluated bid,
provided that said bidder has demonstrated to the Borrower, through MSN, to be
qualified to perform the contract satisfactorily.

(p) The types of contracts described in Section IV of the Consultant Guidelines shall
be the only types of contracts to be used by the Borrower, through MSN, in
comnection with the contracting of consultants’ services provided by a firm and to
be financed with the proceeds of the Loan.

Section IV. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

 

A. General

l. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional
instructions (Additional Instruction) as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower (including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects”
dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable
to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions , to finance Eligible Expenditures
as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.

2. The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.

  
    
  
 
  

 
   
  
 
 

  
  
   
   

Amount of the Loan Percentage of Expenditures

Allocated to be financed
(expressed in USD) (inclusive of Taxes)

262,000,000 100% subject to the
provisions of Part B of this
Section

(2) Goods and Works under 59,420,000 50%

(3) Consultants and Non- 19,465,000 45%
Consultant Services,
including audit services
and Training under Part 3
of the Project

Category
(1) EEPs under Parts 1 and 2
of the Project

  
 
     
  

      

    
    

14

 

 
~ 8,240,000 | 80% |

       
  

 

(4) Operating Costs under —
Part 3 of the Project
(5) Front-end Fee

   
  

 
     
   
   
  
   
    
   

 
   

Amount payable pursuant to 7
Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the

General Conditions
Amount due pursuant to
Section 2.08(c) of this
Agreement

350,000,000 +[ssSC—C~—~CS~S~S

B. Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

875,000

  

   
   

(6) Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar
premium

    
  

lL. Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made: for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $52,400,000 may be made
for payments made prior to this date but on or after September 1, 2014 (but in no
case more than 12 months before the date of this Agreement), for Eligible
Expenditures under Category (1) in accordance with the provisions of the
Additional Instructions.

2. If, at any time, the Bank determines that any portion of the amounts disbursed by
the Borrower under Category (1) was made: (a) for expenditures which are not
eligible under the EEPs; or (b) not in compliance with the provisions of this Section
B, the Borrower shall promptly refund any such amount to the Bank as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.

3. With respect to withdrawals under Category (1):

(a) the maximum amount allocated to each Participating Province to be
disbursed in the event of its full compliance with each TLI, shall not exceed
the amounts included in the Additional Instructions.

(b) after the Effective Date, the Borrower may request an initial withdrawal up
to $60,000,000 as an advance upon submission to the Bank of a report with
forecasted EEPs for participating Provinces for the period commencing
from the date of this Agreement to December 31, 2015; and

(c) thereafter, subsequent withdrawals shall be made every calendar semester,
after the Bank has received reports, in form and substance acceptable to
the Bank, certifying as to the extent to which: (1) each Participating Province
has executed at least 70% of the amount allocated to its EEPs for the
corresponding calendar semester or calendar year, as the case may be; (ii)

15

 
 

the Additional Instructions have been adhered to by the Borrower; and (iti)
the Bank has determined, on the basis of the IUFRs furnished by the
Borrower, and its own verification, that the TLI targets for the preceding
calendar semester or calendar year, as the case may (as set forth in Schedule
4 to this Agreement) have been satisfactorily met and the expenditures
incurred by the Borrower are consistent with the EEPs.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, for purposes of disbursing Loan amounts under
Category (1), if:

(a)

(b)

(i) one or more of the TLIs for any Participating Province have not been
achieved by their due dates, as agreed with the Bank; or (ii) the Bank has
received evidence of partial compliance of any TLI, then the Bank may,
in agreement with the Borrower, though MSN, reduce the maximum
amount of the corresponding withdrawal in proportion to the percentage
of non-compliance of said TLI. The part of the allocated amount not
disbursed due to non-compliance or partial achievement of any TLI target,
may be: (A) disbursed during the following semester, if the Bank is
satisfied that the respective TLI has been fully achieved; or (B) at the end
of any calendar year, by notice to the Borrower, through MSN, reallocated
to other TLIs and Participating Provinces following the formula and
percentages set forth in Table A of the Additional Instructions; or (C) if
requested by the Borrower, at the end of the third year of Project
implementation, reallocated to Categories (2), (3) or (4).

one or more of the TLIs have been fully achieved by any Participating
Province before their due dates, the Bank may, in agreement with the
Borrower, through MSN: (i) reallocate said amounts to other TLIs in the
same Participating Province; or (ii) at the end of the third year of Project
implementation, reallocate said amounts to categories (2), (3) or (4).

The Closing Date is December 31, 2020.

16

 
Ae a sme Ne AM Re AI cle ee aE eg ace ne are mud n Meri ee ene erie tne

SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule

L. The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date (“Installment Share”). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal
Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such
repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.

Principal Payment Date Installment Share
xpressed as a Percentage

On each April 15 and October 15 1.96%

Beginning on October 15, 2022
2.00%

through April 15, 2047
2. If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:

      

  
    
 
 

  

  

On October 15, 2047

   

(a) To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn
Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this
Schedule.

(b) Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share’’)
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any

17

 
 

amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.

(a) Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal
Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal. ,

(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions
of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after
the adoption of such billing system.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs | and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period,
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate

exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.

If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each
such amount.

 
‘ SCHEDULE 4

Transfer-Linked Indicators

Amount Amount Amount Amount Amount USD
Target Target Target Target Target
USD USD USD USD

~~ _ “ we
10% | 1,048,000 3,275,000 3,144,000 3,537,000 2,620,000

pie | om _ = ~ — ss
Sept t,703,000 7,860,000 7,860,000 6,877,500 50% 4,323,000

Yes/No | 2,620,000 3,275,000 2,620,000 1,965,000 1,310,000

Yes/No | 7,860,000 6,550,000 | Yes/No. | 3,144,000 2,358,000 1,572,000

2% | 786,000 2,620,000 2,096,000 1,179,000 786,000

     
    

     
    
    
    
   
  
    

    
  
 

TLI 1:
Percentage of public PHC
facilities with personnel
trained to provide quality
NCD-related health
services.

   
   

    
  
 

   

 
 
   

3

     
 

TLI 2:
Percentage of public PHC
facilities that are
implementing electronic
medical records.

 

  

 
    

    
  

  
 
 
  

  
 

TLI3:
Percentage of public PHC
facilities certified to
provide quality services
for the detection and
control of patients with
NCDs.

       
   

  
  
 

   
 
  

  

TL 4:
Provincial PHC facilities
certification teams working
according to an approved
action plan.

TLI 5:
(i) Provincial units in
charge of surveillance,
promotion, prevention and
control of NCDs and their
risk factors are
functioning; and (ii) the
Participating Province has
signed its Annual
Performance Agreement.

    
   

 
   

     
     
   

     
   
     
 
    
 
 
 

  

TLI 6:
Percentage of Vulnerable
Population Groups with
increased opportunities for
physical activity in
Participating
Municipalities.

   
 

  
 
 

 
  

   
 
  

   
 

     

19
 

 
  

   
 

  
 

TLI?:
Percentage of Vulnerabic
Population Groups
protected against second
hand tobacco smoke in
Participating
Municipalities.

Mareh 2% | 786,000 2.620.060 12% F 2.096.060 | 17% | 1.179.900 22% 786,000

786.000 3,275,006 2,096,000 20% | 1.179.000 25% 786,060
TLI8:;

March 2% | 786,000 7% 4 2,620,000 12% } 2,096.c00 17% 1 1.179.000 22% 786,000
Percentage of Vulnerable

Population Groups
protected against excessive

Sept 5% | 786,000 10% } 3.275.000 15% | 2,096,000 20% | 1,179,000 25% 736.900
Annual! 1.572.000 3,930,000 4,192,000 | Yes/No | 3.144.000

sodium consumption in
For the purposes of this Schedule, the following terms are defined as:

    
 
 

   
     
      
 
 

 
   
 
   

Participating
Municipalities.
TLI 9:
Regular analysis and
reporting of integrated
information systems on
NCDs, injuries and risk
factors have been carried
out.

 
      
    
   
  

2,096,000

 
 
        

1. “Year 1” means the period starting on the date of this Agreement until December
31, 2016. |

2. “Year 2” means the calendar year starting on January 1, 2017 until December 31,
2017.

3. “Year 3” means the calendar year starting on January 1, 2018 until December 31,
2018.

4. “Year 4” means the calendar year starting on January 1, 2019 until December 31,
2019.

5. “Year 5” means the calendar year starting on January 1, 2020 until December 31,
2020.

20

 
APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

l.

“Additional Instructions” means the instructions for withdrawal of Loan proceeds
referred to in Section IV.A.1 of Schedule 2.

“Annual Performance Agreement” means the agreements to be entered into by the
Borrower, through MSN, and each Participating Province, referred to in Section
1.A.2 (b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.

“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers” dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).

“CU” means MSN’s unit referred to in Section I.A.1(a)(ii) of Schedule 2 of this
Agreement, or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.

“DNCD” means Direccién de Promocién de la Salud y Control de Enfermedades
no Transmisibles, MSN’s Directorate of Health Promotion and Control of NCD,
within the MSN.

“Eligible Expenditure Programs” or “EEPs” means a portion of the Participating
Province’s budgetary allocation for health services, consistent of salaries of the
MSP’s staff, MSP’s utilities (such as electricity, water, gas, telephone, internet,
videos, cellular phones, and post) and travel expenses and per diem of MSP’s staff.

“Environmental and Social Management Framework” or “EMSF” means Marco
para el Manejo Ambiental y Social, the Borrower’s framework published in the
Borrower’s territory on February 25, 2015 and in the Bank’s Infoshop on March
18, 2015, acceptable to the Bank which‘contains, inter alia, the environmental and
social protection measures in respect of the Project, including: (a) guidelines for the
identification of existing environmental and social conditions and potential direct
and indirect environmental and social impacts resulting from the carrying out of
the Project; (b) the recommendation of mitigation measures for each negative
impact identified, if any; and (c) measures for enhancing each identified positive
impact; as said framework may be updated and/or amended from time to time with
the agreement of the Bank.

21
11.

12.

13.

14,

15.

16.

17.

18.

19.

“Framework Agreement” means any of the Agreements to be signed between the
Borrower, through MSN, and each Participating Province, referred to in Section
L.A.2 (a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.

“Indigenous Peoples Plan” or “IPP” means any of the plans acceptable to the Bank,
to be prepared and adopted by the Borrower, and/or the pertinent Participating
Province when applicable as set forth in the Operations Manual, all prepared and
to be carried out following the requirements of the Indigenous Peoples Planning
Framework.

“Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework” or “IPPF” means the Borrower’s
framework, acceptable to the Bank (included in the Operations Manual), published
in the Borrower’s territory on February 25, 2015 and in the Bank’s Infoshop on
March 18, 2015, setting forth the indigenous peoples policy framework applicable
to all the activities to be carried out under the Project and the basis and procedures
to prepare and adopt indigenous peoples’ plans or related instruments during
Project implementation.

“ISO” means International Organization for Standardization, an international-
standard-setting body composed of representatives from various national standards
organizations which issues world-wide proprietary industrial and commercial
standards for products.

“TUFR” means Interim Unaudited Financial Report.

“MSN” means Ministerio de Salud de la Nacion, the Borrower’s Ministry of
Health.

“MSP” means Ministerio de Salud Provincial (or its equivalent in each Province),
each of the Participating Provinces’ Ministries of Health.

“NCD” means noncommunicable diseases, which are chronic conditions that are
not the result of an acute infectious process, and which have a prolonged course,
that does not resolve spontaneously, and for which a complete cure is rarely
achieved.

““Non-consultant Services” means services which will be bid and contracted on the

basis of performance of measurable physical outputs, and which are not otherwise
covered by any other category of Eligible Expenditures.

22
20.

21.

22.

23.

24.

25.

26.

27.

28.

29.

30,

31.

32.

 

“Operating Costs” means the reasonable cost of recurrent expenditures of MSN in
Project implementation such as consumable items, utilities and supplies, which
would not have been incurred absent the Project.

“Operations Manual” means the Borrower’s manual dated March 26, 2015,
referred to in Section LB of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Participating Municipality’ means any municipality within any of the
Participating Provinces, which meets the criteria set forth in the Operational
Manual to participate in the implementation of the Project.

“Participating Province” means any of the Borrower’s twenty four provinces
which has signed a Framework Agreement with MSN to participate in the
implementation of the Project.

“PHC” means primary health care.

“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers” dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).

“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, dated
March 26, 2015 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines
and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from
time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.

“Provincial Operative Guidelines” means the guidelines referred to in Section
[.B.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“SEPA” means the Bank’s publicly accessible Procurement Plans Execution
System.

“Training” means expenditures (other than those for consultants’ services)
incurred by MSN to finance reasonable transportation costs and per diem of
trainees and trainers (if applicable), course registration fees, and rental of training
facilities, materials and equipment under the Project.

“Transfer-Linked Indicators” or “TLIs” means a set of indicators set forth in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

“UFI-S” means MSN’s unit referred to in Section LA. 1 (a)(iii) of Schedule 2 of this
Agreement, or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.

“Vulnerable Population Groups” means the Borrower’s population not covered by
contributory health insurance.

23

 
Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions

 

The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:

In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.

Section 3.01. (Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
“Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge

(a) The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at
the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the “Front-end F ee”).

(b) The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the

- Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the

“Commitment Charge”). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty
days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts
are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan Account or cancelled. The
Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment
Date.”

In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and
paragraphs are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in
paragraph 2 above.

The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of “Commitment Charge”, and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs
accordingly:

“19. “Commitment Charge” means the commitment charge specified in the
Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b).”

{In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the
definition of “Front-end Fee” is modified by replacing the reference to Section
3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).

In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the
definition of the term “Loan Payment” is modified to read as follows:

“68. “Loan Payment” means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the
Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including
(but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-
end Fee, the Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any
prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of

24

Lea. RNAS
rater op

a Conversion, the Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable
upon the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any
Unwinding Amount payable by the Borrower.”

In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the

definition of “Payment Date” is modified by deleting the word “is” and inserting
the words “and Commitment Charge are” after the word “interest”,

25
