Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

 

Loan Agreement

(Second Resilience and Growth Development Policy Loan)
between
REPUBLIC OF POLAND
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated August 24 aS
LOAN AGREEMENT

Agreement dated Rugust Qt , 2019 , entered into between REPUBLIC OF POLAND
(“Borrower”) and TERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as
defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Bank has decided to provide this financing on
the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions which the Borrower has already taken under the Program and
which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (b) the Borrower’s
maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic policy framework. The Borrower and the Bank
therefore hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01. The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.

1.02. Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.

ARTICLE II — LOAN

2.01. | The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of nine hundred and twelve million and seven hundred
thousand Euro (€912,700,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this
Agreement (“Loan”).

2.02. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program in
accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

2.03. The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%), of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not later than
sixty days after the Effective Date.

2.04. The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.

2.05. The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to the
Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the
2.06.

2.07.

2.08.

2.09.

interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e)
of the General Conditions.

The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

(a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest
rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or
(B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate
based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the
Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.

(b) Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is accepted
by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in the General
Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV
of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.

Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 of Section II of the Appendix to this
Agreement and relating to Cooperation and Consultation), the Borrower shall promptly
furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this Article II as the Bank
may, from time to time, reasonably request.

ARTICLE II — PROGRAM

The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation. To this
end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions:

(a) the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either party,
exchange views on the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework and the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program;
4.01.

5.01

6.01.

6.02.

6.03.

-3-

(b) prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for
its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request; and

(c) without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section,
the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation that would have the

effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program or any action taken
under the Program.

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that a situation has
arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will be
carried out.

ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement.

ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance.

The Borrower’s Address is:
Ministry of Finance

ul. Swietokrzyska 12
00-916 Warszawa

Republic of Poland

Cable: Facsimile:
MINF (48) 22 6943070
Poland

The Bank’s Address is:

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America

Cable address: Telex: Facsimile:

INTBAFRAD 248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 64145(MCI)
4.

AGREED at War QQW deoullic oF Qoland , as of the day and year first
above written.

   
     

REPUBLIC OF POLAND

By
Authorized Representative

Name: H.€. Aetuc Voda wi UL

Title: \ Anole ¢ sere Nore of Hoke

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

     

By
Authorizéd Representative
Name: Mos. Marina les

Title: Cou any \ vemna.ge polamd
-5-

SCHEDULE 1

Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds

Section I. Actions under the Program

Actions Taken Under the Program. The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program
include the following:

l.

The Borrower has, in accordance with the stabilizing expenditure rule set forth in the Public
Finance Act, limited growth of public expenditures to trend Gross Domestic Product (GDP)
growth to foster compliance with the provisions set forth in the Treaty on the Functioning
of the European Union in the area of budgetary policy, through enactment of Budget Law
for 2015 (dated January 15, 2015, as said law has been duly published in the Journal of
Laws of the Republic of Poland on January 29, 2015, item 153).

The Borrower has strengthened tax compliance of Controlled Foreign Companies, through
the enactment of amendments to the Laws on Corporate Income Taxation and Personal
Income Taxation (dated August 29, 2014, as said law has been duly published in the Journal
of Laws of the Republic of Poland on October 3, 2014, item 1328).

The Borrower, through the Council of Ministers has approved: (a) the Draft amendments
to the Law on Covered Bonds and Mortgage Banks; and (b) the Draft amendments to the
Banking Law, which amendments will enable the Borrower to implement the European
Union Capital Requirements Directive No. 2013/36/EU.

The Borrower has strengthened job-seeker services and promoted flexible employment
through the enactment of amendments to the Law on Promotion of Employment and Labor
Market Institutions (dated March 14, 2014, as said has been duly published in the Journal
of Laws of the Republic of Poland on May 12, 2014, item 598).

The Borrower has: (a) deregulated access to ninety one (91) professions (second
professions deregulation tranche) through the enactment of the Law on the Easing of
Access to Certain Regulated Professions (dated May 9, 2014, as said law has been duly
published in the Journal of Laws of the Republic of Poland on June 10, 2014, item 768);
and (b) submitted to the Borrower’s Parliament a draft Law Amending Laws on Access
Conditions to Certain Professions for the purpose of approving the third profession
deregulation tranche which will cover one hundred and four (104) professions.

The Borrower has increased support for families with more than one child and reduced the
effective tax wedge for such families on low incomes, through the enactment of
amendments to the Law on Personal Income Taxation (dated October 23, 2014, as said law
has been duly published in the Journal of Laws of the Republic of Poland on November
25, 2014, item 1644).

The Borrower, through the NCBR, has issued three inaugural open calls for proposals for
R&D (research and development) and innovation projects and programs in accordance with
-6-

the Smart Growth Operational Program (SGOP) to guide European Union co-financed
programs with more focused, streamlined and business centered programs for R&D and
innovation.

The Borrower has enacted the Law on General Restructuring (dated May 15, 2015, as said
law was signed by the President on June 9, 2015) which introduced an insolvency and
restructuring legal framework for the Borrower’s corporate sector.

The Borrower has: (a) established “one-stop-shops” for quick business registration through
the enactment of the amendments to the law on National Court Register (dated June 26,
2014, as said law has been published in the Journal of Laws of the Republic of Poland on
September 2, 2014, item 1161): and (b) eased the issuance of construction permits through
the enactment of the amendments to the Law on Construction (dated February 20, 2015, as
said law has been duly published in the Journal of Laws of the Republic of Poland on
March 27, 2015, item 443).

Section II. Availability of Loan Proceeds

A.

General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank may specify by
notice to the Borrower.

Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche, from
which the Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds. The allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below:

    

Amount of the Loan
Allocated
expressed in Euro

(1) Single 912,700,000
Withdrawal Tranche

TOTAL AMOUNT 912,700,000

Payment of Front-end Fee. No withdrawal shall be made from the Loan Account until
the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end Fee.

Allocations

      
 

 
  

Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions. No withdrawal shall be made of the Single
Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank is satisfied: (a) with the Program being carried out by
the Borrower; and (b) with the adequacy of the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy
framework.

Deposits of Loan Amounts. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:

all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into an account
designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; and
-7-

the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan into this
account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower’s budget management
system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank.

Excluded Expenditures. The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not
be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines at any time that an
amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund an amount equal to the amount
of such payment to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be
cancelled.

Closing Date. The Closing Date is December 31, 2016.
_2-

SCHEDULE 2

1. The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage
of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date
(“Installment Share”). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a)
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment
Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary,
to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency

On each May I5and November 15

Conversion applies.
Installment Share
Expressed as a Percentage
Beginning May 15, 2025

through November 15, 2044 2,44%

On May 15, 2045 2,40%

Principal Payment Date

      
       

  
   

2. If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment
Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal
Payment Date shall be determined as follows:

(a) To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance as
of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.

(b) Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original
Installment Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.

3. (a) Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any Principal
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding
on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall
be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
-9-

(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on
or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such
billing system.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion ofall or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved Currency,
the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any Principal
Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to the
Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the
Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating
to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.

If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan
Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
-10-

APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

l.

“Budget Law” means the Borrower’s law on budget “Ustawa Budzetowa na rok 2015”
dated January 15, 2015 (Journal of Laws of the Republic of Poland of 2015, item 153).

Controlled Foreign Companies means the Borrower’s controlled foreign companies as
defined in the Borrower’s Law Amending Law on Corporate Income Taxation and
Personal Income Taxation (Journal of Laws of the Republic of Poland on October 3, 2014,
item 1328).

“Law on Corporate Income Taxation” means the Borrower’s law on corporate income
taxes dated February 15, 1992 (Journal of Laws of the Republic of Poland of 2014, item
851 and subsequent amendments).

“Law on Personal Income Taxation” means the Borrower’s law on personal income taxes
dated July 26, 1991 (Journal of Laws of the Republic of Poland of 2012, item 361 and
subsequent amendments).

“Council of Ministers” means the Borrower’s council of ministers established pursuant to
the Borrower’s Law on the Council of Ministers “Ustawa o Radzie Ministréw” dated
August 8, 1996 (Journal of Laws of the Republic of Poland of 1996, number 106, item 492)
and subsequent amendments, or its successor thereto.

“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure:

(a) for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or international
financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association has financed
or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the Association has financed or agreed
to finance under another loan, credit, or grant;

(b) for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or
any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as
designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:

 
  

        
    

Description of Item
Alcoholic beverages

Tobacco, un-manufactured,
tobacco refuse

Se ter et cn

  
   
 
 
    

(whether or not containing
tobacco substitutes)

Radioactive and associated
materials
-ll-

Pearls, precious and
semiprecious stones,
unworked or worked
Nuclear reactors, and parts
thereof; fuel elements
(cartridges), non-irradiated,
for nuclear reactors

Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals
(except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths’ or
silversmiths’ wares
including g
Gold, non-monetary
(excluding gold ores and

 

concentrates)
(c) for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
consumption;
(d) for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is

prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which the
Borrower is a party, and any other goods designated as environmentally hazardous
by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank;

(e) on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security
Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and

(f) with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or
coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or other
recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower (or other such recipient)
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to address such
practices when they occur.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for Loans”, dated March 12, 2012, with the modifications set forth in
Section II of this Appendix.

“European Union Capital Requirements Directive No. 2013/36/EU means the Directive on
access to the activity of credit institutions and the prudential supervision of credit
institutions and investment firms (CRD IV).
11.

12.

13.

14.

16.

17.

18.

-12-

“Law on the Easing of Access to Certain Regulated Professions” means the Borrower’s
law “Ustawa. o ulatwieniu dostepu do wykonywania niektérych zawodéw regulowanych”
dated May 9, 2014 (Journal of Laws of the Republic of Poland of 2014, item 768).

“Law on Construction” means the Borrower’s law on construction procedures dated July
7, 1994 (Journal of Laws of the Republic of Poland of 2013, item 1409 and subsequent
amendments).

“Law on Covered Bonds and Mortgage Banks” means the Borrower’s law on covered
bonds and mortgage banks dated August 29, 1997 (Journal of Laws of the Republic of
Poland of 2003, number 99, item 919 and subsequent amendments).

The Banking Law, means the Borrower’s law on banking activity dated August 29, 1997
(Journal of Laws of the Republic of Poland of 2015, item 128 and subsequent
amendments).

“Law on General Restructuring” means the Borrower’s law on restructuring legal
framework “Prawo restrukturyzacyjne” dated May 15, 2015.

“Law on Promotion of Employment and Labor Market Institutions” means the Borrower’s
law “Ustawa 0 promocji zatrudnienia i instytucjach rynku pracy” dated April 20, 2004
(Journal of Laws of the Republic of Poland of 2013, item 674 and subsequent
amendments).

“Ministry of Finance” means the Borrower’s ministry in charge of finance or any successor
thereto.

“NCBR” means Borrower’s National Center for Research and Development “Narodowe
Centrum Badan i Rozwoju’”, as defined in the Law on National Center for Research and
Development (Journal of Laws of the Republic of Poland of 2010, number 96, item 616).

“National Court Register” means the Borrower’s National Court Register “Krajowy Rejestr
Sadowy” as defined in the Law on National Court Register (Journal of Laws of the
Republic of Poland of 2013, item 1203).

“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote
growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or referred to in the
letter dated June 7, 2015 from the Borrower to the Bank declaring the Borrower’s
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in
support of the Program during its execution.

“Single Withdrawal Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category
entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
20.

21.

-13-

“Smart Growth Operational Program” means the Borrower’s program, adopted by the
European Commission that provides funds to Poland from the European Regional
Development Fund (ERDF) for the 2014-2020 financial perspective.

“Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance in the Economic and Monetary Union”
means the treaty signed among the European Union Member States, dated March 2, 2012
aimed at strengthening fiscal discipline and introducing stricter surveillance within the
Euro area, in particular by establishing a "balanced budget rule".

Section IT. Modifications to the General Conditions

 

The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:

In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section numbers
are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.

The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for Withdrawal)
is deleted in its entirety.

Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted in their
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly.

Section 3.01. (Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
“Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge

(a) The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at the rate
specified in the Loan Agreement (the “Front-end Fee”).

(b) The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the Unwithdrawn Loan
Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the “Commitment Charge”). The
Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the Loan
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from
the Loan Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually
in arrears on each Payment Date.”

Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management; Financial
Statements, Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the subsequent Sections in Article V
are renumbered accordingly.

Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 above and
relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.

Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 above) is
modified to read as follows:
10.

-14-

“Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records

(c) The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Loan until
two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower shall enable the Bank’s
representatives to examine such records.”

Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 above) is
modified to read as follows:

“Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation

(c) The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of such scope
and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the
Program, the performance by the Loan Parties and the Bank of their respective
obligations under the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes
of the Loan.”

In the Appendix, Definitions, all references to Section numbers and paragraphs are
modified, as necessary, to reflect the modifications set forth above.

The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following definition
of “Commitment Charge”, and renumbering the remaining paragraphs accordingly:

“19, “Commitment Charge” means the commitment charge specified in the Loan
Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b).”

Renumbered paragraph 37 (originally paragraph 36) of the Appendix (“Eligible
Expenditure”) is modified to read as follows:

“37, “Eligible Expenditure” means any use to which the Loan is put in support of the
Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the Loan Agreement.”

Renumbered paragraph 44 (originally paragraph 43) of the Appendix (“Financial
Statements”) is deleted in its entirety.

In paragraph 48 of the Appendix, the definition of “Front-end Fee” is modified by replacing
the reference to Section 3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).

In paragraph 67 of the Appendix, the definition of the term “Loan Payment” is modified to
read as follows:

“67. “Loan Payment” means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the Bank
pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including (but not limited
to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-end Fee, the
Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any prepayment
15.

-15-

premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of a Conversion, the
Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable upon the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding Amount payable by the
Borrower.”

In paragraph 72 of the Appendix, the definition of “Payment Date” is modified by deleting
the word “is” and inserting the words “and Commitment Charge are” after the word
“interest”.

The defined term “Project” in paragraph 75 of the Appendix is modified to read “Program”
and its definition is modified to read as follows (and all references to “Project” throughout
these General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”):

“75. “Program” means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in support of
which the Loan is made.”
