Public Disclosure Authorized

SAPS AR CRA RNG AES Se CORAM Be RAS RRC SSS UNS UR LOZ STI EASIAS ANS NESCSR IINLG INTER ES AA RIS RAEN

Public Disclosure Authorized

sat ROS RRR SKUSE CHA ESS SSNS HALL SSS SLSR GSS SEESSI NISL SESBENESEA SE SS IANL SNE RANI ESESSSESIPESUR PIR SSS DIRTY SSRI MUSE A BESS SY LDN BRERA NOS ET SSR ORES OSRE DRE ROUSE R ATES ICE WEEKS

  
  

OFFICIAL
~ DOCUMENTS

 

 

LOAN NUMBER 8647-CN

Loan Agreement

(Lushan Earthquake Reconstruction and Risk Reduction Project)
between
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated “Jovinhe,. 24 2016

 

 
t - a, a oe = oa
mete a

. 4
s “Saat

a ;° , _ if t q ~ QO qT LOAN NUMBER 8647-CN

LOAN AGREEMENT

Agreement dated A/ovaube 25 , 201G, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF

CHINA (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:

1.02.

2.01.

2.02.

2.03.

2.04.

2.05.

2.06.

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.

Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.

ARTICLE 1 — LOAN

The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of three hundred million Dollars ($300,000,000), as such
amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance
with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the
project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”).

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.

The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance,

The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to the
Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e)
of the General Conditions.

The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.
-2-

2.07. The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

2.08. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest
rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or
(B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate
based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the
Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate. .

(b) Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is accepted
by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in the General
Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV
of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.

(c) Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium
payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

2.09. (a) If on any given day, the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit (as
said terms are defined in sub-paragraphs (b)(ii) and (b)(ii1) of this Section), the
Borrower shall pay to the Bank a surcharge at the rate of one half of one percent
(0.5%) per annum of the Allocated Excess Exposure Amount (as defined in sub-
‘paragraph (b)(i) of this Section) for each said day (“Exposure Surcharge”). The
Exposure Surcharge (if any) shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each
Payment Date.

(b) For purposes of this Section the following terms have the meanings set forth below:

(i) “Allocated Excess Exposure Amount” means for each day during which
the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit, the product of:
(A) the total amount of said excess; and (B) the ratio of all (or, if the Bank
so determines, a portion) of the Loan to the aggregate amount of all (or the
3.02.

4.01.

5.01.

equivalent portions) of the loans made by the Bank to the Borrower and to
other borrowers guaranteed by the Borrower that are also subject to an
exposure surcharge, as said excess and ratio are reasonably determined
from time to time by the Bank.

(ii) “Standard Exposure Limit” means the standard limit on the Bank’s
financial exposure to the Borrower which, if exceeded, would subject the
Loan to the Exposure Surcharge, as determined from time to time by the
Bank.

(iii) “Total Exposure” means for any given day, the Bank’s total financial
exposure to the Borrower, as reasonably determined by the Bank.

ARTICLE I — PROJECT

The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project Implementing Entity in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and the Project
Agreement.

Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the Project
is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement.

ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Finance.
The Borrower’s Address is:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe :
Xicheng District
Beijing 100820
People’s Republic of China

Facsimile:

(86-10) 6855-2077
5.03. The Bank’s Address is:

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America

Telex: . Facsimile:

248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)

AGREED at Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first above written.

PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

~>
By AON \% &
Authorized Representative

Dipert>, Directo peenteot

Title: \

ym V cec tf Cecperatron report tutus

Lt brtsfr FRAC R,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR

RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By

   

Authorized Representative

Title: Comeetreg Dineen, Clas,
-5-

SCHEDULE 1

Project Description

The objectives of the Project are to improve access to disaster resilient infrastructure and

strengthen risk reduction in select municipalities of Sichuan Province and to improve emergency
preparedness in Shimian County in Sichuan Province.

Part 1.

Part 2.

Part 3.

Part 4.

The Project consists of the following parts:
Upgrading and Risk Reduction of Rural Roads

Upgrading and rehabilitation of rural roads in select counties in the Municipality of
Chengdu and the Municipality of Ya’an, including associated pavements, drainage ditches,
bridges, culverts, guardrails, traffic signs, and slope protection, and the carrying out of road
safety audits for these investments to, inter alia, guide the preliminary design.

Upgrading of Priority Urban and Emergency Infrastructure

Carrying out of lifeline urban infrastructure investments in select counties and districts in
the Municipality of Ya’an, including, inter alia, reconstruction of urban roads with
associated civil works, new construction of roads with associated civil works, construction
of bridges, construction of emergency evacuation shelters with associated facilities and
equipment, upgrading of river embankments, construction of water plants, and the carrying
out of road safety audits for the above-mentioned road infrastructure investments to guide
preliminary design.

Technical Assistance for Strengthening of Disaster Management and Preparedness in
Shimian County

Provision of technical assistance for the design and implementation of a pilot disaster risk
management system, the establishment of a disaster control and command center for
Shimian County’s emergency response Office, the acquisition of software, data and
equipment required to establish the DRM system, and training and capacity building of
targeted system users.

Project Management and Capacity Building
(a) Carrying out of surveys and detailed design for Project activities.
(b) Provision of support for Project management, engineering supervision and

consulting services, external environmental and resettlement monitoring, hiring of
procurement agents, and training and workshops.
-6-

SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Section I. Implementation Arrangements
A. Financing Arrangements

1. For the purposes of carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall make available the
proceeds of the Loan to the Project Implementing Entity, under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, including the following principal terms:

(a) The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars or any other Currency as
the Loan may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion {such
principal amount determined on the date, or respective dates, of withdrawal from
the Loan Account) of the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn.

(b) The principal amount so made available (including an amount equal to the fee paid
pursuant to Section 2.03 of this Agreement and any premium for Interest Rate Caps
or Interest Rate Collars paid pursuant to Section 2.08(c) of this Agreement and
Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions) shall be recovered over a period of
twenty-nine (29) years, inclusive of a grace period of six (6) years.

(c) Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest applicable from time to time
to the Loan pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.05 of this Agreement.

(d) A Commitment Charge shall be charged equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.

2. The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to: (a) manage, operate, monitor,
transfer and reconcile the proceeds of the Loan made available to it pursuant to paragraph 1
above in accordance with arrangements and procedures satisfactory to the Bank; (b) take ~
all required actions, including provision of timely consents and approvals as may be
necessary, to facilitate the utilization of said Loan proceeds and the implementation of the
Project and, to enable the Project Implementing Entity to comply with its undertakings
under the Project Agreement; and (c) maintain all relevant records and documents related
to the Loan and the Project and provide promptly such documents and records, including
all other information, as may be requested by the Borrower or the Bank from time to time.

B. Anti-Corruption

The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions
of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
-7-

Safeguards

The Borrower shall take, and shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to take, all
measures necessary to comply with, or all measures necessary to enable the Project
Implementing Entity to comply with, the provisions of Section I.D of the Schedule to the
Project Agreement.

Section I. Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

Project Reports

The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to monitor and evaluate the
progress of the Project and prepare, on a semi-annual basis, Project Reports in accordance
with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the
indicators set forth in the Operations Manual. Each Project Report shall cover the period
of one (1) calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than sixty (60)
days after the end of the period covered by such report.

For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the execution of
the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall be furnished to the Bank
not later than four (4) months after the Closing Date.

Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits

The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions.

Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall cause the
Project Implementing Entity to prepare and furnish to the Bank, as part of the Project
Report, not later than sixty (60) days after the end of each calendar semester, interim
unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the semester, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank.

The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to have its Financial Statements
audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.
Fach audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the
Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the
Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period. The Borrower shall make,
or cause the Project Implementing Entity to make, the audited Financial Statements .
publicly available in a timely fashion and in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
Section IL. Procurement
A, General

l. Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. All goods, works and non-consulting
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.

2. Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections J and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and
with the provisions of this Section.

3. Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to the
corresponding method described in Sections If and III of the Procurement Guidelines, or
Sections I, III, [V and V of the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.

B. Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services
1. International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,

goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of International Competitive Bidding.

2. Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. The
following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used for
procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for those contracts specified
in the Procurement Plan: (a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional
provisions set forth in the box below; (b) Direct Contracting; and (c) Shopping.

  

The procedures applicable to the procurement of goods, works, and non-consulting
services under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding (“NCB”’)
shall be the open tendering procedures set forth in the Borrower’s Law on Tendering
and Bidding promulgated by its Order No. 21 dated August 30, 1999; provided,
however, that such procedures shall be subject to the provisions of Section I,
-Paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of Section I, and Appendix 1 of the Procurement Guidelines,
and the additional provisions in the following. In the event of a conflict between the
Borrower’s procedures and these NCB Procedure Modifications, the latter shall govern.

   
      
   
   
 
      
 

{i) Eligibility to participate in a procurement process and to be awarded a Bank-
financed contract shall be as defined under Section I of the Procurement
Guidelines; accordingly, no bidder or potential bidder shall be declared
ineligible for such contract for reasons other than those provided in Section I of
the Procurement Guidelines. No restriction based on nationality of bidders

    
     
   
   
-9.

  
 

  

be allowed to

 
  
  

and/or origin of goods shall apply, and foreign bidders shall
participate in NCB without application of restrictive conditions.

All invitations to prequalify or bid shall be advertised in a national newspaper
of wide circulation in the Borrower’s country, or on a widely used website /
electronic portal with free national and international access acceptable to the
Bank except for goods or non-consulting services contracts that are estimated to
cost less than $300,000 equivalent each, or works contracts that are estimated to
cost less than $2,000,000 each, which may be advertised in a provincial daily
newspaper. Such advertisement shall be made in sufficient time for prospective
bidders to obtain prequalification or bidding documents and prepare and submit
their responses. In any event, a minimum of thirty (30) days shall be given to
bidders between the date of such advertisement (or the date of availability of
bidding documents, whichever is later) and the deadline for the submission of
bids, and the advertisement and bidding documents shall specify the deadline
for the submission of bids. In the case of such advertisement on a website /
electronic portal, the notice shall remain readily accessible nationally and
internationally until at least the deadline for the submission of bids. Potential
bidders shal! be allowed to inspect and purchase bidding documents at any time
prior to the deadline for the submission of bids.

   
       
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
     
   
   
 

Standard Bidding Documents acceptable to the Bank shall be used.

  
     

Qualification requirements of bidders and the method of evaluating the
qualification of each bidder shall be specified in detail in the bidding documents.

 
    

(v) Prequalification procedures and documents acceptable to the Bank shall be used
for large, complex and/or specialized works. Verification of the information
upon which a bidder was prequalified, including current commitments, shall be
carried out at the time of contract award, along with the bidder’s capability with
respect to personnel and equipment. All bidders that meet the qualification
criteria set out in the pre-qualification documents shall be allowed to bid, and
there shall be no limit on the number of pre-qualified bidders. Where pre-
qualification is not used, the qualification of the bidder who is recommended for
award of contract shall be assessed by post-qualification, applying the

qualification criteria stated in the bidding documents.

 
 
      
   
     
   
   
  
 

 
 

Registration shall not be used to assess bidders’ qualifications. A bidder shall
not be required to register as a condition for inspecting or purchasing bidding
documents, submitting its bid or receiving contract award. A bidder determined
to be the lowest evaluated responsive bidder, shall be given reasonable
opportunity of registering (if required) before contract signing without any let
or hindrance. Bidding shall not be restricted to any particular class of
contractors, and non-classified contractors shall also be eligible to bid.

 
 
      
     
 
-10-

  
     
  
   
     
     
     
   
   
   
     
   
     
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
   
     
 

 
 

(vii) No margins of preference of any sort shall be given to bidders, such as on the
basis of their location, place of incorporation, or affinity with the geographical
area in which the Project activities will take place.

 
 

(viii) All bidders who are awarded contracts for works and single-responsibility
contracts shall be required to provide performance security in an amount
sufficient to protect the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity / Entities,
as the case may be, in case of breach of contract by the contractor, and the
bidding documents shall specify the required form and amount of such security
and any other potential damages for such breach.

Bidders shall be allowed to submit bids by mail or in person.

 
 

(x) All bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be offered an opportunity to
be present (either in person or through their representatives) at the time of bid
opening, but bidders shall not be required to be present at the bid opening.

(xi) All bid evaluation criteria shall be disclosed in the bidding documents and
quantified in monetary terms or expressed in the form of pass/fail requirements.

(xii) | No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price exceeds any cost
estimate or falls outside any margin or bracket of prices or average bids
established by the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity / Entities, as the
case may be. Rejection of all bids or re-bidding shall not be allowed solely
because the number of bids is less than three (3), and rejection of all bids or
rebidding shall not take place without the Bank’s prior written agreement.

(xiii) Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated responsive bidder, that
is, the bidder who meets the appropriate standards of capability and resources
and whose bid has been determined: (A) to be substantially responsive to the
bidding documents; and (B) to offer the lowest evaluated cost. The winning
bidder shall not be required, as a condition of award, to undertake
responsibilities for work or to assume other obligations not stipulated in the
bidding documents or otherwise to modify the bid as originally submitted. No
negotiations shall be permitted except with the Bank’s no-objection.

(xiv) In accordance with the Procurement Guidelines, each bidding document and
contract shall include provisions stating the Bank’s policy to sanction firms or
individuals found to have engaged in fraud and corruption as set forth in the
Procurement Guidelines.

(xv) In accordance with the Procurement Guidelines, each bidding document and

contract shall include provisions stating the Bank’s policy with respect to
inspection and audit of accounts, records and other documents relating to the
submission of bids and contract performance.

  

lua
-l1-

      

Government-owned enterprises in the Borrower’s country may be permitted to
bid or submit a proposal of goods, works, or non-consulting services if they can
establish that they: (A) are legally and financially autonomous; (B) operate
under commercial law; and (C) are not a dependent agency of the agency
conducting the procurement.

 
   
   
   
    
 

Matters such as subcontracting, joint venture relationships and assignment of
contract-shall be handled in accordance with the bidding documents.

  
    
 

The results of bid evaluation and contract award shall be published in the
national or provincial press (as provided under paragraph (ii) above) or official
gazette or a free and open-access website and shall identify: (A) the name of
each bidder who submitted a bid; (B) bid prices as read out at bid opening; (C)
the name of the bidder, and the evaluated price, of each bid that was evaluated;
(D) the names of bidders whose bids were either rejected as non-responsive or
not meeting qualification criteria, or not evaluated, with the reasons therefor;
and (E) the name of the winning bidder and the final total contract price, as well
as the duration and summary scope of the contract. Such publication shall be
within two (2) weeks of receiving the Bank’s no-objection to the award
recommendation for contracts subject to the Bank’s prior review, and within
two (2) weeks of the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity’s award
decision for contracts subject to the Bank’s post review. The bidding documents
shall disclose the newspaper in which and / or the electronic means by which
the information on contract award will be published.

 
 
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
     
     
  
 

 
 

The Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity / Entities, as the case may be,
shall have in place an effective and independent protest mechanism for bidders
to protest. The bidding documents shall provide the professional title and
address of the official to whom such protests should be sent.

 
 
    
 

Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services

Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality and
Cost-based Selection.

Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following methods, other
than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for procurement of consultants’
services for those contracts which are specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based
Selection; (b) Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications; (c) Single-Source Selection
of consulting firms; (d) Selection of Individual Consultants; and (e) Single-Source
Selection of individual consultants.
-12-

D. Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s
Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.

Section IV. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. General

L, The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as the
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World Bank Disbursement
Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as
made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.

2. The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures
in each Category.

Amount of the Loan | Percentage of Expenditures
‘Allocated to be Financed
Category (expressed in USD) (inclusive of Taxes)

(1) Goods, works, non-consulting 269,300,000 100%
services, consultants’ services,
Training and Workshops, and .
Incremental Operating Costs
for Parts 2, 3, and 4 of the
Project

(2) Goods, works, non-consulting 29,950,000 100%
services, consultants’ services,
and Training and Workshops:
for Part 1 of the Project
(3) Front-end Fee 750,000 Amount payable pursuant to
Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance with
Section 2.07 (b) of the General
| Conditions

 
-]3-

      
 

 

(4) Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar premium

   
    

  
  

   

Amount due pursuant to
Section 2,08(c) of _ this
Agreement

        

TOTAL AMOUNT 300,000,000

B. Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

l. Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made for
' payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.

2. The Closing Date is June 30, 2022.
 

-14-

SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule

l. The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage
of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date
(“Installment Share”). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying:
(a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment
Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary,
to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.

Principal Payment Date Installment Share
pressed as a Percentage

On each April 15 and October 15

 
 

     
               

   

Beginning October 15, 2022 2.17%

through October 15, 2044

On April 15, 2045 2.35%

2. If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment
Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal
Payment Date shall be determined as follows:

(a) To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance as
of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.

(b) Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (‘Original
Installment Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.

3. (a) Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any Principal
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding
-15-

on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall
be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.

(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on
or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such
billing system.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved Currency,
the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any Principal
Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to the
Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the
Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating
to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.

If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan
Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
-16-

APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

l,

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud
and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”, dated
October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.

“Annual Work Plan” means each of the rolling plans for the Project to be prepared or
updated by the Project Implementing Entity and each Project Implementation Unit, and
approved by the Bank, on an annual basis as provided for in Section I.B.3 of the Schedule
to the Project Agreement.

“Bank’s Safeguards Policies” means the operational policies and procedures for financing
of development projects by the Bank at the date of this Agreement and relating to
Environmental Assessment, Natural Habitats, Pest Management, Indigenous Peoples
(Ethnic Minorities), Physical Cultural Resources, Involuntary Resettlement, Forests,
Safety of Dams, Projects on International Waterways, and Projects in Disputed Areas, as

published under www. WorldBank.org/opmanual.

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.

“Chengdu Municipality’ or “Chengdu” means the Project Implementing Entity’s
municipality of Chengdu, or any successor thereto.

“Consultant Guidelines” means the “‘Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers” dated January
2011 (revised July 2014).

“Displaced Persons” means persons who, on account of the execution of the Project, have
experienced or would experience direct economic and social umpacts caused by: (a) the
involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets or
access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources or means of livelihood, whether or not such
persons must move to another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally
designated parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such
persons; and a “Displaced Person” means any of such Displaced Persons.

“Environmental Management Plans” or “EMPs” means, collectively, the Project
Implementing Entity’s environmental management plans for the Project, acceptable to the
Bank, dated April 12, 2016, which sets out the environmental and social protection
measures, including measures for the protection of natural habitats and physical cultural
resources, in respect of the Project, as well as administrative, monitoring, supervision and
training arrangements to ensure the implementation of said plans, as said plan may be
revised from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank, and such term
10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

-17-

includes all schedules and annexes supplemental thereto, and any additional EMP as may
be required for Project activities.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for Loans”, dated March 12, 2012, with the modifications set forth in
Section II of this Appendix.

“Incremental Operating Costs” means the reasonable costs incurred by the Project
Implementing Entity at the provincial, city, county and district levels for purposes of
Project management and implementation based.on the Annual Work Plans approved in
advance by the Bank, on account of office supplies and consumables, utilities, bank
charges, communications, mass media and printing services, interpretation and translation
services, vehicle rental, operation and maintenance, and insurance, building and equipment
maintenance, local transportation, domestic travel, lodging, and subsistence allowances,
salaries of contractual and temporary staff, but excluding salaries and any salary
supplements of members of the Borrower’s or the Project Implementing Entity’s civil
service.

“Municipal Leading Group” means the Leading Group for the Project in Ya’an
Municipality established by the Project Implementing Entity on December 31, 2014,
responsible for leading and coordinating the relevant agencies and the counties and districts
of Ya’an Municipality in implementing the Project, and such term includes any successor
thereto.

“Operations Manual” means the manual dated June 21, 2016, prepared by the Project
Implementing Entity, satisfactory to the Bank, which includes the financial management
manual, procurement management manual, results framework, Project monitoring
indicators, monitoring and evaluation arrangements, and disbursement arrangements, and
other operational arrangements, as the same may be revised from time to time with the
prior written agreement of the Bank.

“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and
Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers” dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).

“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, dated May
30, 2016 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph
1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in
accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.

“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and the Project Implementing
Entity of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time; and such
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreenient.

“Project City, County, and District” means, collectively, cities, counties and districts in
which Project activities are implemented.
17.

18.

19.

20.

21.

22.

23.

-18-

“Project Implementing Entity” means the Borrower’s Province of Sichuan, or any
successor thereto.

“Provincial Leading Group” means the “4.20” Lushan Strong Earthquake Recovery
Committee of Sichuan Province established by the Project Implementing Entity on May
30, 2013, responsible for providing high-level policy direction for the Project, and such
term includes any successor thereto.

“Resettlement Action Plans” or “RAPs” means, collectively, the resettlement action plan
for the Project prepared by the Project Implementing Entity, acceptable to the Bank, dated
March 21, 2016, setting forth, inter alia: (i) the principles and procedures governing the
acquisition of land required for the Project and related facilities; (ti) actions and measures
for the payment of compensation to Displaced Persons and for their resettlement and
rehabilitation; (iii) the criteria and procedures for developing and implementing actions
and measures, satisfactory to the Bank, for mitigating the adverse social impacts resulting
from the implementation of activities in locations that are not directly identified in the
RAP; (iv) grievance redress mechanisms; and (v) reporting and monitoring arrangements
to ensure compliance with said plan, as the same may be revised from time to time with
the prior written agreement of the Bank; and such term includes all attachments and
annexes supplemental to said plan, and any additional RAPs as may be required for Project
activities.

“Resettlement Policy Framework” or “RPF” means the resettlement policy framework for
the Project, prepared and adopted by the Project Implementing Entity, acceptable to the
Bank, dated March 21, 2016, which sets out the policies and procedures for the acquisition
of land and other assets, compensation, resettlement and rehabilitation of Displaced
Persons, and for the preparation of additional RAPs as may be required for Project
activities, as said framework may be revised from time to time with the prior written
agreement of the Bank; and such term includes all schedules and annexes supplemental to
said framework.

“Safeguards Instruments” means, collectively, the Environmental Management Plans, the
Resettlement Action Plans, and the Resettlement Policy Framework, as well as any
schedules and annexes supplemental to said instruments.

“Training and Workshops” means the costs of training activities under the Project, based
on the Annual Work Plans approved in advance by the Bank, and attributable to seminars,
workshops, and domestic and overseas training, along with travel and subsistence
allowances for training participants, services of trainers, rental of training facilities,
preparation and reproduction of training materials, and other activities directly related to
course preparation and implementation.

“Transport Project Management Office” means the Sichuan Provincial Transportation
Department Highway Bureau housed in the Sichuan Provincial Transportation Department,
or any successor thereto.
24.

25.

26.

-19-

“Urban Project Management Office” means the Sichuan Urban Environment Project Office
housed in the Sichuan Provincial Department of Housing and Urban Construction, or any
successor thereto.

“Ya’an Municipality” or “Ya’an” means the Project Implementing Entity’s municipality
of Ya’an, or any successor thereto.

~Ya’an Project Management Office” means the Project management office established by
the Project Implementing Entity in Ya’an in respect of Part 2 of the Project, and referred
to in Section I.B.1(e) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.

Section I. Modifications to the General Conditions

The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:

In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section numbers
are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.

Section 3.01. (Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
“Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge

(a) The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at the rate
specified in the Loan Agreement (the “Front-end Fee”).

(b) | The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the Unwithdrawn Loan
Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the “Commitment Charge”). The
Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the Loan
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from
the Loan Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually
in arrears on each Payment Date.”

In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and paragraphs
are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in paragraph 2 above.

The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following definition
of “Commitment Charge”, and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs accordingly:

“19. “Commitment Charge” means the commitment charge specified in the Loan
Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b).”

In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the definition
of “Front-end Fee” is modified by replacing the reference to Section 3.01 with Section 3.01

(a).
-20-

In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the definition
of the term “Loan Payment” is modified to read as follows: .

“68, “Loan Payment” means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the Bank
pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including (but not limited
to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-end Fee, the
Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any surcharge, any
prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of a
Conversion, the Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable upon the
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding Amount
payable by the Borrower.”

In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the definition
of “Payment Date” is modified by deleting the word “is” and inserting the words “and
Commitment Charge are” after the word “interest”.
