Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

CEE NN
LOAN NUMBER 8685 -EG

Loan Agreement

(Second Fiscal Consolidation, Sustainable Energy and Competitiveness
Programmatic Development Policy Financing)

between
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated December 22 » 2016

CE
LOAN NUMBER 8685 -EG

LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT dated Oc50ecember 22 , 2016, entered into between ARAB

REPUBLIC OF EGYPT (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing financing in
support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Bank has decided to
provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions which the Borrower has already
taken under the Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(b) the Borrower’s maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic policy framework. The Borrower
and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows:

1.01.

1.02.

2.01.

2.02.

2.03.

2.04.

2.05.

2.06.

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.

Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.

ARTICLE If — LOAN

The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of one billion Dollars ($1,000,000,000), as such amount
may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with
the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement (“Loan”).

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program in
accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.

The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.

The interest payable by the Borrower on the principal amount of the loan withdrawn and

the amount outstanding from time to time for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal
to the Reference Rate (as defined in paragraph 82 of the General Conditions) for the Loan

Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion

of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the
Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.

The Payment Dates are April 1 and October 1 in each year.
2.07.

2.08.

2.09.

2.10.

3.01.

-2-

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

(a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest
rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or
(B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate
based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the
Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.

(b) Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is accepted
by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in the General
Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV
of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.

(c) Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium
payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section II of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 of Section II of the Appendix to this
Agreement and relating to Cooperation and Consultation), the Borrower shall promptly
furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this Article II as the Bank
may, from time to time, reasonably request.

The Borrower represents that it has designated its Ministry of Finance for the purpose of
handling, on behalf of the Borrower, debt service payments with respect to the Loan.

ARTICLE II — PROGRAM

The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation. To this
end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions:
4.01.

4.02.

5.01.

5.02.

5.03.

6.01.

6.02.

-3-

(a) the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either party,
exchange views on the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework and the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program,

(b) prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for
‘ts review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request; and

(c) without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section,
the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation that would have the
effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program or any action taken
under the Program including any action specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK

The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that a situation has
arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will be
carried out.

The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that the event
specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of sixty
(60) days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower.

ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

Subject to the other provisions of this Article and Section 9.01 of the General Conditions,
this Agreement shall become effective once the Bank has received evidence that all
necessary constitutional procedures have been taken by the Borrower in accordance with
the provisions of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions.

The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that the
progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the Program, and the adequacy of the
Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework are acceptable to the Bank.

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and eighty (1 80) days after the date of
this Agreement, or such later date as may be established by the Bank in accordance with
Section 9.04 of the General Conditions.

ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

The Minister of International Cooperation of the Borrower is designated as the Borrower’s
Representative.

The Borrower’s Address 1s:

Ministry of International Cooperation
8 Adly Street
6.03.

written.

Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt
Cable Address: —

Ministry of International Cooperation
Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt

The Bank’s Address is:

Facsimile:

(202) 2391-2815
(202) 2391-5167

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development

1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America
Telex:

248423(MCID or
64145(MCI)

Facsimile:

1-202-477-6391

AGREED at Casro, Arabs Reeublé. of Eyol as of the day and year first above

   

Name: .

~ Title:
i
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR

RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By

Now

Authorized Representative
Name: A S * Vv ALAtY
Title: CRD NTE Y PIFECTI R
-5-

SCHEDULE 1

Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds

Section I. Actions under the Program'

The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following:

1.

The Borrower enacted Law No. 79 of 2016 Finalization of Taxation Disputes and
published said law in its Official Gazette.

(a) The Borrower enacted Law No. 8 of 2016 Assessing the Public Budget of the State,
endorsing the national budget for FY17, which contains administrative instructions
to all government budgetary entities to contain the wage bill, including provision
for delinking bonuses and rewards of their respective employees’ salaries from the
basic salary component and published said law in its Official Gazette.

(b) The Ministry of Finance of the Borrower issued a wage bill report entitled
Government Wages, Key Reforms, dated November 2016 notifying that at least
forty-five percent (45%) of the wage bill is automated.

The Ministry of Finance of the Borrower issued Decree No. 247/2016 to establish and
operationalize a Public Finance Management Improvement Unit with the following
mandates: (a) setting-up an internal audit function; (b) monitoring fiscal risks of Economic
Authorities and SOEs including their contingent liabilities; and (c) enhancing government
accounting and financial control.

(a) The Ministry of Electricity and Renewable Energy of the Borrower has issued
Decree No. 436 of 2016 implementing a third annual electricity tariff adjustment
that goes beyond the former five-year tariff adjustment plan adopted in the Prime
Minister’s Decree No. 1257/2014, as recommended by the Borrower's Egyptian
Electric Utility and Consumer Protection Regulatory Agency.

(b) The Supreme Energy Council of the Borrower adopted a policy for financing
variations in actual energy costs compared to the budget estimates in the
Borrower’s Medium Term Fiscal Framework (2016-19).

The Ministry of Electricity and Renewable Energy of the Borrower issued Decree
No. 230/2016 notifying the Executive Regulations of Electricity Law of the Borrower that,
inter alia, include measures to improve the energy efficiency of large electricity
consumers and published said Regulations in the official Gazette of the Borrower.

(a) The Borrower’s Cabinet approved the draft Gas Activities Regulatory Law and

 

| The Program is anchored in the Borrower's Medium Term Fiscal Framework.
(b)

7. (a)

(b)

submitted it to the Borrower’s Parliament for consideration.

The Ministry of Petroleum and Mineral Resources of the Borrower issued Decree
No. 1631/2016 to establish a new Policy and Strategy Unit detailing the charter,
functions and authority to spearhead the modernization of the petroleum sector.

The Ministry of Electricity and Renewable Energy of the Borrower has issued
Decree No. 244 of 2016 to set up an energy efficiency unit with dedicated staff to
lead the implementation of the Borrower’s National Energy Efficiency Action Plan.

The Borrower’s Cabinet issued Decree No. 2533 of 2016, announcing the revised
Feed-in-Tariff policy for renewable energy.

8. The Borrower’s Cabinet approved the draft Single-Person Company Law that includes
limited liability protection, and submitted it to the Borrower’s Parliament for consideration.

9. (a)

(b)

10. (a)

(b)

Section IT.

The Borrower’s Cabinet approved the draft Law on Streamlining the Procedures
of Granting Licenses for Industrial Establishments that includes measures for
simplified licensing by notification for low-risk industrial activities, and submitted

it to the Borrower’s Parliament for consideration.

The Borrower’s Minister of the Ministry of Trade and Industry issued Ministerial
Decree number 1071 of 2016, approving the implementation plan of the
Borrower’s Industrial Licensing Reform Program.

The Borrower’s Cabinet issued Decree No. 2509/2016 notifying the Executive
Regulations of Protection of Competition and Prohibition of Monopolistic
Practices Law 1316/2005 for implementing the Borrower’s anti-cartel policy and
strengthening the institutional independence of ECA.

The ECA adopted administrative regulations dated December 2015 to further
strengthen anti-cartel enforcement policy.

Availability of Loan Proceeds

A. General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of this Section and such additional arrangements as the Bank may specify by
notice to the Borrower.

B. Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan (except for amounts required to pay the Front-
end Fee) is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche, from which the Borrower may make
withdrawals of the Loan proceeds. The allocation of the amounts of the Loan to this end is
set out in the table below:
_7-

  
   
     
    
  

Amount of the Loan
Allocated
expressed in USD

(1) Single Withdrawal Tranche $997,500,000
(2) Front-end Fee $2,500,000 |

(3) Amount due pursuant to Section
2.08(c) of this Agreement

TOTAL AMOUNT

Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions.

   

  
   

Allocations

 

$1,000,000,000

   

1. No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank
is satisfied: (a) with the Program being carried out by the Borrower; and (b) with
the adequacy of the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework.

Deposit of Loan Amounts.

1. The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank, the first request for
withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter maintain a deposit account in
Dollars (“Foreign Currency Deposit Account”), on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank.

2. All withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the
Foreign Currency Deposit Account. The Borrower shall ensure that upon each
deposit of an amount of the Loan into the Foreign Currency Deposit Account, an
equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower’s budget management system,
in a manner acceptable to the Bank.

Audit. Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall:

1. have the Foreign Currency Deposit Account audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards
acceptable to the Bank;

2. furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than four (4)

months after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the
report of such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request, and make such report publicly available in a timely fashion and in a
manner acceptable to the Bank; and

3. furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Foreign Currency
Deposit Account and its audit as the Bank shall reasonably request.

Excluded Expenditures. The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not
be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines at any time that an
amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the
_2-

Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund an amount equal to the amount
of such payment to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be
cancelled.

Closing Date. The Closing Date is June 30, 2018.
-9-

SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule

1. The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage
of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date
(“Installment Share”). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a)
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment
Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary,
to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.

Principal Payment Date Installment Share
_(Expressed as a Percentage
On each April 1 and October |

Beginning April 1, 2022 1.67%
through and including April 1, 2051

On October 1, 2051 TTT

2. If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment
Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal
Payment Date shall be determined as follows:

    
     

  
  

 
   
 

(a) To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance as
of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.

(b) Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original
Installment Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.

3. (a) Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any Principal
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding
on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall
be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
-10-

(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on
or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such
billing system.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved Currency,
the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any Principal
Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to the
Conversion by either: (a) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the
Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating
to the Conversion; or (b) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.

If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan
Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
-11-

APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

1.

2.

“Cabinet” means the Borrower’s Council of Ministers.

“ECA” means the Egyptian Competition Authority, an agency established and operating
pursuant to the Borrower’s Protection of Competition and Prohibition of Monopolistic
Practices Law No. 3 of 2005, or any successor thereto.

“Reonomic Authorities” means the Borrower’s parastatals, established and operating
pursuant to the Borrower’s General Authorities Law No. 61 of 1963.

“Egyptian Electric Utility and Consumer Protection Regulatory Agency” means the
Borrower’s electric utility and consumer protection regulatory agency established and
operating pursuant to the Borrower’s Electricity Law No. 87 of 2015, or any successor

thereto.

“Flectricity Law” means Law No. 87 of 2015 of the laws of the Borrower for defining the
policy and regulatory framework of the electricity.

“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure:

(a)

(b)

for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or international
financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association has financed
or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the Association has financed or agreed
to finance under another loan, credit, or grant;

for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or
any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as
designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:

Sub-group Description of Item
Alcoholic beverages

121 Tobacco, un-manufactured,
tobacco refuse
oe Tobacco, manufactured

122
(whether or not containing

tobacco substitutes)

        
     

    
  
 

   

  
 
   
 

Radioactive and associated
materials

Pearls, precious and
semiprecious stones,
unworked or worked

  
    

  

 
10.

(c)

(d)

(f)

-12-

718.7 Nuclear reactors, and parts
thereof; fuel elements
(cartridges), non-irradiated,
for nuclear reactors
==
machine
897.3 Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals
(except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths’ or
silversmiths’ wares
(including set gems)
Gold, non-monetary

(excluding gold ores and
concentrates)

     
   
      
     
   

 
   

 
 
 
   
     

 

for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
consumption;

for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is
prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which the
Borrower is a party;

on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security
Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations, and

with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or
coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or other
recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower (or other such recipient)
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to address such
practices when they occur.

“Executive Regulations of Electricity Law” means the Borrower’s administrative
guidelines for implementing the Electricity Law.

“Executive Regulations of Protection of Competition and Prohibition of Monopolistic
Practices Law” means the Borrower’s administrative guidelines for implementation of
said law.

“Feed-in-Tariff’ means the price advertised in advance for the purchase of electricity
produced from the renewable energy sources as set forth in the Borrower Law No. 203 of
2014 Regarding the Stimulation of Producing Electricity from Renewable Energy Sources.

“Foreign Currency Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Part D.1 of Section
II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
11.

12.

13.

15.

16.

17.

18.

19.

20.

21.

22.

23.

24.

-13-

“FY” means the Borrower’s fiscal year covering the period of twelve (12) months,
commencing on July 1 of the calendar year and ending on June 30 of the succeeding
calendar year.

“Gas Activities Regulatory Law” means the Borrower's proposed legislation on the policy
and regulatory framework for the gas sector.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for Loans”, dated March 12, 2012, with the modifications set forth in
Section II of this Appendix.

“Industrial Licensing Reform Program” means the Borrower’s implementation plan set
forth in Ministerial Decree No. 1071 of 2016, detailing the Borrower’s policies for
reforming industrial licenses.

“Medium Term Fiscal Framework (2016-19)” means the Borrower’s annual rolling multi-
year expenditure plan.

“Ministry of Electricity and Renewable Energy” means the Borrower’s ministry
responsible for electricity and renewable energy, or any successor thereto.

“Ministry of Petroleum and Mineral Resources” means the Borrower’s ministry
responsible for petroleum and mineral resources, or any successor thereto.

“Ministry of Finance” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance, or any successor thereto.

“Ministry of Trade and Industry” means the Borrower’s ministry responsible for trade and
industry, or any successor thereto.

“National Energy Efficiency Action Plan” means the Borrower’s plan comprising the
measures and targets for promotion of energy efficiency.

“Official Gazette” means the Borrower’s official publication that records the business and
proceedings of the Borrower’s Government and publishes legal notices.

“Program” means the Borrower’s program of actions, objectives and policies designed to
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or referred to
in the letter dated November 24, 2016, from the Borrower to the Bank, declaring the
Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from
the Bank in support of the Program during its execution.

“Public Finance Management Improvement Unit” means the Borrower’s unit within the
Ministry of Finance responsible for all aspects of resource mobilization and public

expenditure management.

“Single-Person Company” means a company established by a single partner.
25.

26.

27.

-14-

“Single Withdrawal Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category
entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

“SOEs” means State Owned Enterprises.
“Supreme Energy Council” means the Borrower’s Cabinet Committee responsible for

overseeing the energy sector, established and operating pursuant to the Prime Minister
Decree No. 1093 of 1979, as amended by decree No. 317 of 2014, or any successor thereto.

Section Il. Modifications to the General Conditions

The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:

In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section numbers
are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.

The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for Withdrawal)
is deleted in its entirety.

Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted in their
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly.

Section 3.01. (Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
“Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge

(a) The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at the rate
specified in the Loan Agreement (the “Front-end Fee”).

(b) The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the Unwithdrawn Loan
Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the “Commitment Charge”). The
Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the Loan
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from
the Loan Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually
in arrears on each Payment Date.” .

Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management; F' inancial
Statements, Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the subsequent Sections in Article V

are renumbered accordingly.

Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 above and
relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.

Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 above) is
modified to read as follows:

“Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records
8.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

-15-

. (c) The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Loan until
two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower shall enable the Bank’s
representatives to examine such records.”

Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 above) is
modified to read as follows:

“Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation

. (c) The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of such scope
and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the
Program, the performance by the Loan Parties and the Bank of their respective
obligations under the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes
of the Loan.”

In the Appendix, Definitions, all references to Section numbers and paragraphs are
modified, as necessary, to reflect the modifications set forth above.

The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following definition
of “Commitment Charge”, and renumbering the remaining paragraphs accordingly:

“19. “Commitment Charge” means the commitment charge specified in the Loan
Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b).”

Renumbered paragraph 37 (originally paragraph 36) of the Appendix (“Eligible
Expenditure”) is modified to read as follows:

“37. “Eligible Expenditure” means any use to which the Loan is put in support of the
Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the Loan Agreement.”

Renumbered paragraph 44 (originally paragraph 43) of the Appendix (“Financial
Statements”) is deleted in its entirety.

In paragraph 48 of the Appendix, the definition of “Front-end Fee” is modified by replacing
the reference to Section 3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).

In paragraph 67 of the Appendix, the definition of the term “Loan Payment” 1s modified to
read as follows:

“67. “Loan Payment” means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the Bank
pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including (but not limited
to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-end Fee, the
Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any prepayment
premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of a Conversion, the
15.

-16-

Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable upon the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding Amount payable by the
Borrower.”

In paragraph 72 of the Appendix, the definition of “Payment Date” is modified by deleting
the word “is” and inserting the words “and Commitment Charge are” after the word
“interest”.

The defined term “Project” in paragraph 75 of the Appendix is modified to read “Program”
and its definition is modified to read as follows (and all references to “Project” throughout
these General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program’’):

“75. “Program” means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in support of
which the Loan is made.”
