 

Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

 

OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

 

 

LOAN NUMBER 8576-PH

Loan Agreement

Second Disaster Risk Management Development Policy Loan
with a Catastrophe Deferred Drawdown Option (CAT-DDO)

between
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
and —

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated Pomnary LO ,2016

 
LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT dated AO , 2016, entered into between
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES (“Borrower”Y and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing
financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The
Bank has decided to provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of (a) the actions which
the Borrower has already taken under the Program and which are described in Section lof
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and (b) the Borrower’s maintenance of an adequate
macroeconomic policy framework. The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as
follows:

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01. The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.

1.02. Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.

ARTICLE Ii — LOAN

2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of five hundred million Dollars
($500,000,000) as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this
Agreement (“Loan”).

2.02. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program
in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

2.03. The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one half of one
percent (0.50%) of the Loan amount.

2.04. If, at the Borrower’s request and on such terms and conditions as the Bank may
agree, the Closing Date is extended, the fee payable by the Borrower for each
extension of the Closing Date shall be at the rate of one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the amount of the Loan available for withdrawal upon such extension.
If the Borrower elects to capitalize the fee from the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself such amounts
required to pay such fee. If the Borrower elects to pay the fee from its own
resources, the Borrower shall pay such fee not later than sixty days after the date
of the notice given by the Bank to the Borrower confirming the extension of the
Closing Date.
2.05.

2.06.

2.07.

2.08.

-2-

The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General
Conditions.

The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.

(a) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b) of this Section, the principal
amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

(b) The Borrower may at the time of requesting a Withdrawal also request
repayment provisions different from those set out in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement for such Withdrawal, provided that (i) the average maturity of
such Withdrawal does not exceed 20 years from the Withdrawal Date and
the final maturity of such Withdrawal does not exceed 35 years from the
Withdrawal Date (or such other average maturity and/or final maturity as
may be generally applicable to loans made by the Bank to the Borrower at
the time of such agreement), and (ii) such repayment provisions have been
agreed between the Borrower and the Bank prior to the Withdrawal Date
of such Withdrawal.

(a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of
limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by
the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
2.09.

2.10.

3.01.

(b) Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.

(c) Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts
required to pay any premium payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c)
of the General Conditions up to the amount allocated from time to time for
the purpose in the table in Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

At any time prior to the Closing Date, the Borrower may, by notice to the Bank,
refund any amount of the Withdrawn Balance for the purpose of re-crediting such
amount to the Loan Account for further withdrawals. Upon such refund, the
repayment schedule shall be adjusted on a pro rata basis, on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank.

Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 of Section II of the Appendix to this
Agreement and relating to Cooperation and Consultation), the Borrower shall
promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this
Article I as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request.

ARTICLE HI — PROGRAM

The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation. To
this end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions:

(a) the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either
party, exchange views on the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy
framework and the progress achieved in carrying out the Program;

(b) prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request; and

(c) without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
Section, the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation that
would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program
4.01.

5.01.

5.02.

6.01.

6.02.

6.03.

-4-

or any action taken under the Program including any action specified in
Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK

The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following: a situation has
arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it,
will be carried out.

ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following: the Bank is
satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the Program
and with the adequacy of the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework.

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.

ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES .
The Borrower’s Representative is its Secretary of Finance.
The Borrower’s Address is:

Department of Finance
Department of Finance Building
Bangko Sentral Complex

Roxas Blvd.

Manila, Philtppines

Facsimile:

(63-2) 526-9990
(63-2) 523-9216

The Bank’s Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America

Cable address: Telex: Facsimile:

INTBAFRAD 248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391
-5-

Washington, D.C. 64145(MCI)

AGREED at Manila, Republic of the Philippines, as of the day and year first above
written. |

REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
By
Authorized Representative

Name: Cosovr ¥- Farsi

Title: SE&CKETARY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By

: eee Representative

Name: MOT>oo Konic
Title: tr cv elon '
-6-

SCHEDULE 1
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds
Section I. Actions under the Program

Actions Taken Under the Program. The actions taken by the Borrower under the
Program to enhance its technical and financial capacity to reduce disaster risk and manage
the socio-economic and fiscal impacts of natural disasters include the following:

1. The National Economic and Development Authority has issued the midterm
update to the Philippine Development Plan, revising the Borrower’s investment
programming strategy to prioritize disaster risk reduction and management
according to levels of vulnerability to multiple hazards.

2. The Borrower has provided specific allocations for risk resiliency programs,
through the 2015 General Appropriations Act.

3. The Borrower’s Department of Finance has adopted the Disaster Risk Financing
and Insurance Strategy, which provides a comprehensive framework for the
implementation of financial protection solutions against natural disasters at
national, local and individual level.

4. The Borrower has included special provisions in the 2015 General Appropriations
Act to allow four agencies (Department of Education, Department of Public
Works and Highways, Department of Health and Department of Transportation
and Communications) to use the National Disaster Risk Reduction and
Management Fund to pay for insurance premiums.
-7-

Section II. Availability of Loan Proceeds

A.

General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank
may specify by notice to the Borrower.

Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan (except for amounts required to pay the
Front-end Fee) is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche, from which the
Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds. The allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below:

   
  
  
  

Amount of the Loan
Allocated
(expressed in Dollars)

497,500,000

(2) Front-end Fee 2,500,000

(3) Fee payable
pursuant to
Section 2.04 of
this Agreement

 
   
  
   

  
   
 
 

Allocations
(1) Single
Withdrawal
Tranche

  

  
  
 

  

(4) Amount due
pursuant to
Section 2.08(c) of
this Agreement

 
      

500,000,000

 

TOTAL

AMOUNT
Payment of Fee Pursuant to Section 2.04 of Agreement. If the Closing Date is
extended pursuant to Section 2.04 of this Agreement and the Borrower elects to
finance from its own resources the fee set forth in said Section, no withdrawal shall

be made from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of
such fee.

Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds.
No withdrawal shall be made of the Tranche unless the Bank is satisfied, that a

State of Calamity exists in the Borrower’s territory as a result of a natural disaster
which has been declared by the Borrower’s President through a Proclamation of
-8-

Calamity duly published in the Official Gazette in accordance with the Borrower’s
legislation.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, if, at any time prior to the receipt by the Bank of a
request for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the Bank determines that a review
of the Borrower’s progress in carrying out the Program is warranted, the Bank shall
give notice to the Borrower to that effect. Upon the giving of such notice, no
withdrawals shall be made of the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance unless and until the
Bank has notified the Borrower of its satisfaction, after an exchange of views as
described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of said Section 3.01, with the progress achieved
by the Borrower in carrying out the Program.

Deposits of Loan Amounts. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:

1. all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into
an account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; and

2. the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan
into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower’s
budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank.

Excluded Expenditures. The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan
shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines at any
time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an Excluded
Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund an
amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts refunded to
the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled.

Closing Date. The Closing Date is September 30, 2018.
-9-

SCHEDULE 2

Amortization Schedule

Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall repay
each Disbursed Amount in semiannual installments payable on each April 15 and
October 15, the first installment to be payable on the twenty first (21*') Interest
Payment Date following the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed Amount and
the last installment to be payable on the fiftieth (50%) Payment Date following the
Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed Amount. Each installment except for the
last one shall be equal to 3.33% of the Disbursed Amount. The last installment
shall be equal to the remaining outstanding amount of the Disbursed Amount.

The Bank shall notify the Loan Parties of the amortization schedule for each
Disbursed Amount promptly after the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed
Amount.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 through 2 of this Schedule, in the
event of a Currency Conversion of all or any portion of a Disbursed Amount to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period,
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate
that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if
the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.

If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency.
-10-

APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

l. “Disaster Risk Financing and Insurance Strategy” means the Borrower’s
comprehensive framework for the implementation of financial protection solutions
against natural disasters.

2. “Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure:

(a)

(b)

for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit,
or grant;

for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986)
(the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions
to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:

Sub-grour
Alcoholic beverages

121 Tobacco, un-
manufactured, tobacco

refuse
122
18
728

     
  
 

 

   
 
   

containing tobacco
substitutes)
associated materials
Pearls, precious and
semiprecious stones,
unworked or worked
Nuclear reactors, and
parts thereof; fuel
elements (cartridges),
non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors

Tobacco processing
machinery

 

     
 
 

Tobacco, manufactured
5
6
-

(whether or not

 

  

 
    
-11-

Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals
(except watches and
watch cases) and
goldsmiths’ or

silversmiths’ wares
(including set gems)
Gold, non-monetary
(excluding gold ores and
concentrates)

 

(c) for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
consumption;

(d) for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international
agreements to which the Borrower 1s a party);

(e) on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United
Nations; and

(f) with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent,
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the
Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower
(or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action

- gatisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.

“National Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Fund”, previously, the
Calamity Fund, means the fund established under the Philippine Disaster Risk
Reduction and Management Act (Republic Act No. 10121) for funding for disaster
risk reduction and management activities.

“National Economic and Development Authority” means the Borrower’s
socioeconomic development planning body, mandated by the Philippine
Constitution, , and established by Executive Order 230, dated July 22, 1987.

“Philippine Development Plan” means the Borrower’s development plan for 2011-
2016, adopting a framework of inclusive growth to generate employment and
reduce poverty.
-12-

“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or
referred to in the letter dated November 4, 2015, from the Borrower to the Bank
declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and
requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its execution.

“Single Withdrawal Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the
category entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of
Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

“State of Calamity” means a situation resulting from a natural disaster, caused by
one or more events specified in NDCC Memo Order Number 04, Series of 1998,
dated March 4, 1998, entitled “Amended Policies, Procedures and Criteria for
Declaration of a State of Calamity.”
-13-

Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions

The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:

In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.

The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.

Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered
accordingly.

Section 3.01. (Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
“Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge

(a) The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at
the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the “Front-end Fee’’).

(b) The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the
“Commitment Charge”). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty
days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts
are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan Account or cancelled. The
Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment
Date.”

Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management,
Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the subsequent
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly.

Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 above
and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.

Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 above)
is modified to read as follows:

“Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records

. (c) The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures
under the Loan until two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower shall
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.”
8.

10.

Ll.

12.

13.

-14-

Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 above)
is modified to read as follows:

“Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation

(c) The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and
furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a
report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by the Loan
Parties and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Legal
Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.”

In the Appendix, Definitions, all references to Section numbers and paragraphs
are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modifications set forth above.

The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of “Commitment Charge”, and renumbering the remaining paragraphs
accordingly:

“19. “Commitment Charge” means the commitment charge specified in the
Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b).”

Renumbered paragraph 37 (originally paragraph 36) of the Appendix (“Eligible
FExpenditure”) is modified to read as follows:

“37, “Eligible Expenditure” means any use to which the Loan is put in support
of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the Loan
Agreement.” | .

Renumbered paragraph 44 (originally paragraph 43) of the Appendix (“Financial
Statements”) is deleted in its entirety.

In paragraph 46 of the Appendix, the term “Fixed Spread” is modified to read as
follows:

“46. “Fixed Spread” means, for each Withdrawal, the Bank’s fixed spread for
the Loan Currency of the Withdrawal in effect at 12:01 a.m. Washington, D.C.
time, on the Withdrawal Date, and expressed as a percentage per annum; provided,
that: (a) for purposes of determining the Default Interest Rate, pursuant to Section
3.02 (e), that is applicable to an amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance on which
interest is payable at a Fixed Rate, the “Fixed Spread” means the Bank’s fixed
spread in effect at 12:01 a.m. Washington, D.C. time, one calendar day prior to the
date of the Loan Agreement, for the Currency of denomination of such amount;
(b) for purposes of a Conversion of the Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread
14.

15.

16.

17.

18.

-15-

to a Variable Rate based on the Fixed Spread, and for purposes of fixing the
Variable Spread pursuant to Section 4.02, “Fixed Spread” means the Bank’s fixed
spread for the Loan Currency in effect at 12:01 a.m. Washington, D.C. time on the
Conversion Date; and (c) upon a Currency Conversion of all or any amount of the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance, the Fixed Spread shall be adjusted on the Execution

oF 99

Date in the manner specified in the Conversion Guidelines”.

In paragraph 48 of the Appendix (“Front-end Fee”) is modified by replacing the
reference to Section 3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).

In paragraph 67 of the Appendix, the definition of the term “Loan Payment” is
modified to read as follows:

“67. | “Loan Payment” means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the
Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including
(but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-
end Fee, the Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any
prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of
a Conversion, the Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable
upon the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any
Unwinding Amount payable by the Borrower.”

In paragraph 72 of the Appendix, the definition of “Payment Date” is modified by
deleting the word “is” and inserting the words “and Commitment Charge are” after
the word “interest”.

The defined term “Project” in renumbered paragraph 75 of the Appendix is
modified to read “Program” and its definition is modified to read as follows (and
all references to “Project” throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be
references to “Program’’):

“75. “Program” means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in
support of which the Loan is made.”

In paragraph 94 of the Appendix, the term “Variable Spread” is modified to read
as follows:

“94. “Variable Spread” means, for each Withdrawal and each Interest Period:
(1) the Bank’s standard lending spread for Loans in effect at 12:01 a.m.
Washington, D.C. time, on the Withdrawal Date; (2) minus (or plus) the weighted
average margin, for the Interest Period, below (or above) the Reference Rate, for
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding borrowings or portions
thereof allocated by it to fund loans that carry interest at a rate based on the
Variable Spread; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
-16-
percentage per annum. In the case of a Loan denominated in more than one
Currency, “Variable Spread” applies separately to each of such Currencies.”

19. The following definitions of the terms “Withdrawal” and “Withdrawal Date” are
inserted as new paragraphs 98 and 99, respectively:

“9g “Withdrawal” means each amount of the Loan withdrawn by the Borrower
from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 2.01.

99. “Withdrawal Date” means, for each Withdrawal, the date on which the
Bank pays the Withdrawal.”
