Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

OFFICIAL
~ DOCUMENTS

 

 

LOAN NUMBER 8698-AL

Loan Agreement

(Financial Sector Development Policy Loan)
between
REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated March 20 , 2017
LOAN NUMBER 8698-AL
LOAN AGREEMENT

Agreement dated M arch LO , 2017, entered into between
REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing
financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The
Bank has decided to provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (1) the actions which
the Borrower has already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (ii) the Borrower’s maintenance of an adequate
macroeconomic policy framework. The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as
follows:

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01. The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.

1.02. Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.

ARTICLE II — LOAN

2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of USD 100,000,000 (one hundred
million Dollars) (“Loan”).

2.02. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program
in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

2.03. The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.

2.04 The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.

2.05. The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided,
however, that the interest payable shall in no event be less than zero percent (0%)
per annum. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan
Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of
thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as
provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General Conditions.
2.06.

2.08.

3.01.

4.01.

5.01.

-2-

The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph S of Section II of the Appendix to this
Agreement and relating to Cooperation and Consultation), the Borrower shall
promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this
Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request.

ARTICLE Ill — PROGRAM

The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation. To
this end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions:

(a) the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either
party, exchange views on the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy
framework and the progress achieved in carrying out the Program,

(b) prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Bank, for its review and comment, a report on the progress achieved in
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request; and

(c) without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
Section, the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation that
would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program
or any action taken under the Program including any action specified in
Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK

The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that a
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a
significant part of it, will be carried out.

ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely the
Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the
Program and with the adequacy of the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy
framework.
5.02.

6.01.

6.02.

6.03.

-3-

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.

ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Finance.

The Borrower’s Address is:

Ministry of Finance
No. 3 Bulevardi “Deshmoret e Kombit”
Tirana, Albania

Facsimile:

355 42228494

The Bank’s Address is:

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America

Telex: Facsimile:

248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
-4-
AGREED at Tirana, Republic of Albania, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA

By

    
  
 

Authorized Representative
name: | ARBEN AHMETAY
Title: MIMI STBIR OF FI NANCE

 
 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By Lb pba

Authorized Representative

Name: {ADA Steelkova
Title: in Weal 2 (tog, ECCWH
-5-

SCHEDULE 1

Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds

Section I. Actions Taken Under the Program

The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following. The Borrower
has:

1. Approved the strengthening of the insolvency regime evidenced by the enactment
of the Law on Bankruptcy, Law No. 110/2016 dated October 27, 2016 published
in the Official Gazette No. 226 dated November 22, 2016.

2. Approved the introduction of new private bailiff reforms to expedite collateral
executions by enacting the amendments to the Civil Procedure Code (Law No.
8116) as evidenced by the enactment of Law No. 114/2016, dated November 3,
2016 published in the Official Gazette No. 219, dated November 15, 2016, and the
Private Bailiffs Law (Law No. 10031), as evidenced by the enactment of Law No.
109/2016, dated 27 October, 2016, published in the Official Gazette No. 229 dated
November 25, 2016.

3. Approved improvements to the audit quality of its Public Interest Entities (PIEs)
by enacting the amendments to the Law on Statutory Audit (Law No. 10091)
approximating it with the EU acquis communautaire, as evidenced by the
enactment of Law No. 47/2016 published in the Official Gazette No. 84, dated
May 19, 2016.

4, Approved the extension of deposit insurance coverage to legal entities by enacting
amendments to the Law on Deposit Insurance (Law No. 53/2014), as evidenced by
the enactment of Law No. 39/2016 published in the Official Gazette No. 77, dated
May 9, 2016.

5. Approved the strengthening of the commercial banks’ resolution framework in line
with the EU Banks’ Recovery and Resolution Directive, as evidenced by the
enactment of Law No. 133/2016 dated December 22, 2016, published in the
Official Gazette No. 263 dated January 11, 2017.

6. Completed, through BoA, the evaluation of systemic banks’ recovery plans for the
year of 2015 to enable effective crisis preparedness and management, as evidenced
by a letter signed by the Governor of the Bank of Albania on January 15, 2016.

7. Approved the strengthening of the Savings and Credit Associations (SCAs)’
regulation and supervision as evidenced by the enactment of the Savings and
Credit Associations Law No. 52/2016, published in the Official Gazette No. 107,
dated June 15, 2016.
10.

-6-

Adopted, through BoA, new licensing, reporting and risk management regulations
for SCAs in support of a stronger regulation and supervision of the sector, as
evidenced by the enactment of Decisions No. 104, No. 105, and No. 106, of Bank
of Albania, dated October 5, 2016, published in the Official Gazette No. 196, dated
October 25, 2016.

Approved the strengthening of the AFSA’s enforcement powers by enacting the
amendment to the Collective Investment Undertakings Law (Law No. 10 198), as
evidenced by the enactment of Law No. 36/2016, published in the Official Gazette
No. 64, dated April 20, 2016.

Adopted, through AFSA, new regulations on liquidity management and mark-to-
market valuations to lower the risks for investment funds’ unit holders, as
evidenced by AFSA’s Board Decisions No. 45 and 46, dated June 30, 2015 and
published in AFSA’s website: http://www.amf. gov.al/buletini.asp?id=20&r=1 1.

Section II. Availability of Loan Proceeds

A.

General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank
may specify by notice to the Borrower.

Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan (except for amounts required to pay the
Front-end Fee) is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche, from which the
Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds. The allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below:

 
    
 
      

Amount of the Loan
Allocated

(1) Single Withdrawal Tranche 99,750,000
(2) Front-end Fee 250,000

TOTAL AMOUNT 100,000,000

 
 

  
   
 

Allocations

Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions.
No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank
is satisfied: (a) with the Program being carried out by the Borrower; and (b) with

the adequacy of the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework.

Deposits of Loan Amounts. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:
_7-

l. all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into
an account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; and

2. the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan
into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower’s
budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank.

Excluded Expenditures. The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan
shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines at any
time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an Excluded
Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund an
amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts refunded to
the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled.

Closing Date. The Closing Date is March 31, 2018.
-8-

SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule

1. The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date (“Installment Share”). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal
Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date.

Installment Share
Expressed as a Percentage

2.08%

   
 

Principal Payment Date

     
   

 

On each March 15 and September 15

   
 

  
  

Beginning March 15, 2025
through September 15, 2048

2. If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:

(a) To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn
Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this
Schedule.

(b) Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”)
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date.

3. (a) Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal
Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal.
(b)

-9-

Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions
of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after
the adoption of such billing system.
-10-

APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions

1. “Albania Financial Supervisory Authority” or “AFSA” means the Borrower’s
financial regulatory agency established and operating pursuant to Law No. 9572,
dated 03-07-06, or its successor thereto.

2. “BoA” means Bank of Albania, the Borrower’s Central Bank, established and
operating pursuant to the Law on the Bank of Albania, Law No. 8269 dated
December 23, 1997, or its successor thereto.

3. “EU acquis communautaire” means the accumulated legislation, legal acts and
court decisions which constitute the body of European Union Law.

4, “Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure:

(a) for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit,
or grant;

(b) for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986)
(the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions
to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:

Description of Item
Alcoholic beverages

121 Tobacco, un-manufactured,
tobacco refuse
Tobacco, manufactured
(whether or not containing
tobacco substitutes

525 Radioactive and associated
materials

667 Pearls, precious and
semiprecious stones,
unworked or worked
Nuclear reactors, and parts
thereof; fuel elements
(cartridges), non-irradiated,
for nuclear reactors

 
    
    
 
  
 
     
       

  

  
  
 
 

     
 
     
-ll-

728.43 Tobacco processing
machine
897.3

Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals
(except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths’ or
silversmiths’ wares
(including set gems)
Gold, non-monetary
(excluding gold ores and
concentrates

   

   

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

   

 

    

(c) for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
consumption;
(d) for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of

which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international
agreements to which the Borrower is a party;

(e) on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United
Nations; and

(f) with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent,
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the
Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower
(or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action
satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.

“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or
referred to in the letter dated December 14, 2016 from the Borrower to the Bank
declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and
requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its execution.

“SCAs” means Savings and Credit Associations established and operating
pursuant to Law No. 8782, dated 05 March 2001, “On Savings and Credit
Associations”.
-12-

8. “Single Withdrawal Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the
category entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of
Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

Section IT. Modifications to the General Conditions

rN

The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:

l. In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.

2. The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.

3. Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered
accordingly.

4, Section 3.01. (Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:

“Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge

(a) The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan
amount at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the “Front-end Fee”).

(b) The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement
(the “Commitment Charge”). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective
dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan
Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-
annually in arrears on each Payment Date.”

5. Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally) and 5.09 (Financial Management;
Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the subsequent
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly.

6. Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 above
and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.

7. Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 above)
is modified to read as follows:
8.

10.

12.

14.

-13-

“Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records

bee (c) The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures
under the Loan until two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower shall
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.”

Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 above)
is modified to read as follows:

“Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation

bes (c) The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and
furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a
report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by the Loan
Parties and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Legal
Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.”

In the Appendix, Definitions, all references to Section numbers and paragraphs
are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modifications set forth above.

The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of “Commitment Charge”, and renumbering the remaining paragraphs
accordingly:

“19. “Commitment Charge” means the commitment charge specified
in the Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b).”

Renumbered paragraph 37 (originally paragraph 36) of the Appendix (“Eligible
Expenditure”) is modified to read as follows:

“37, “Eligible Expenditure” means any use to which the Loan is put in support
of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the Loan
Agreement.”

Renumbered paragraph 44 (originally paragraph 43) of the Appendix (“Financial
Statements”) is deleted in its entirety.

In paragraph 48 of the Appendix, the definition of “Front-end Fee” is modified by
replacing the reference to Section 3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).

In paragraph 67 of the Appendix, the definition of the term “Loan Payment” is
modified to read as follows:
15.

16.

-14-

“67, “Loan Payment” means any amount payable by the Loan Parties
to the Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions,
including (but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance,
interest, the Front-end Fee, the Commitment Charge, interest at the Default
Interest Rate (if any), any prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a
Conversion or early termination of a Conversion, the Variable Spread
Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable upon the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding Amount
payable by the Borrower.”

In paragraph 72 of the Appendix, the definition of “Payment Date” is modified by
deleting the word “is” and inserting the words “and Commitment Charge are” after
the word “interest”.

The defined term “Project” in paragraph 75 of the Appendix is modified to read
“Program” and its definition is modified to read as follows (and all references to
“Project” throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to
“Program’”):

“75. “Program” means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement
in support of which the Loan is made.”
