Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

 

 

LOAN NUMBER 8776-IN

Loan Agreement

(National Agricultural Higher Education Project)
between
INDIA
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated OTO6ER [6 2017

 

 
LOAN NUMBER 8776-IN
LOAN AGREEMENT

Agreement dated OcrPBERK (6 _, 2017, between INDIA (“Borrower”) and

the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(“Bank”). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:

1.01.

1.02.

2.01.

2.02.
2.03.
2.04.

2.05.

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.

Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.

ARTICLE tf! — LOAN

The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Apreement, the amount of eighty-two million five hundred
thousand United States Dollars (USD 82,500,000), as such amount may be
converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with
the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing
the project described in Schedule | to this Agreement (“Project”).

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.

The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of

one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.

The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, however, that the interest payable shall in no event be less than zero
percent (0%) per annum, and provided furthermore that, upon a Conversion of all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the
Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article [V of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance
remains unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty
2.06.

2.08.

2.09.

-2.

days, then the interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as
provided in Section 3.02 (¢) of the General Conditions.

The Payment Dates are February | and August | in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

(a)

(b)

—(c)

(a)

The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; and (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of
limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by
the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.

Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion

Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be
peid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts
required to pay any premium payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c)
of the General Conditions up to the amount allocated from time to time for
the purpose in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

If on any given day, the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure
Limit (as said terms are defined in sub-paragraphs (b)\ii) and (b){iii) of
this Section), the Borrower shall] pay to the Bank a surcharge at the rate of
one half of one percent (0.5%) per annum of the Allocated Excess
Exposure Amount (as defined in sub-paragraph (b){i) of this Section) for
3.01.

3.02.

4.01.

-3-

each said day (“Exposure Surcharge”). The Exposure Surcharge (if any)
shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date.

(b) For purposes of this Section the following terms have the meanings set
forth below:

(i) “Allocated Excess Exposure Amount” means for each day during
which the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit,
the product of: (A) the total amount of said excess; and (B) the
ratio of all (or, if the Bank so determines, a portion) of the Loan
to the aggregate amount of all (or the equivalent portions) of the
loans made by the Bank to the Borrower, and to other borrowers
guaranteed by the Borrower that are also subject to an exposure
surcharge, as said excess and ratio are reasonably determined from
time to time by the Bank.

(ii) “Standard Exposure Limit” means the standard limit on the
Bank’s financial exposure to the Borrower which, if exceeded,
would subject the Loan to the Exposure Surcharge, as determined
from time to time by the Bank.

(iii) | “Total Exposure” means for any given day, the Bank’s total
financial exposure to the Borrower, as reasonably determined by
. the Bank.

ARTICLE i — PROJECT

The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through the Indian Council of
Agricultural Research (“ICAR”), in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions.

Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK

The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that
ICAR’s Enabling Legal Framework is amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed
or waived, whether in whole or in part, so as to affect materially and adversely the
ability of ICAR to carry out the Project, and/or preform the obligations set forth in
Schedule 2 of this Agreement.
4.02.

5.01.

6.01.

6.02.

6.03.

The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that the
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a
period of 30 days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the
Borrower.

ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.

ARTICLE VI-— REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
The Borrower's Representative is any of the following officials, acting severally:

the Secretary, or the Additional Secretary, or the Joint Secretary, or any Director,
Deputy Secretary, or Under Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs in

. the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance.

The Borrower's Address is:

Secretary

Department of Economic Affairs
Ministry of Finance

Government of India

North Block

New Delhi 110001, India

Facsimile:

+91 (11) 23094075

The Bank’s Address is:

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America

Facsimile:

1-202-477-6391
-5-

AGREED at 6% Kez! , India, as of the day and year first above written.

we
By tw” ,

Authorized Representative

INDIA

     

Name: SAMEER MUnAeR MHARRE

Title: Joist SELRETHR /

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By 4 pers fot
Authorized tatWe

Name: Soeriea Geeyrn
Title. Acting Couarty WRectoR MAMA
-6-

SCHEDULE 1

Project Description

The objective of the Project is to support Participating Agricultural Universities

and ICAR in providing more relevant and higher quality education to Agricultural
University students.

(b)

(c)

The Project consists of the following parts:

: Support to Agricultural Universities

Support to Agricultural Universities: Providing IDP Grants to selected
Partictpating Agricultural Universities for the implementation of Institutional
Development Plans.

Centers for Advanced Agricultural Science and Technology: Providing CAAST
Grants to selected Participating Agricultural Universities for the establishment of
Centers for Advanced Agriculture Science and Technology.

ICAR Innovation Grants to Agricultural Universities: Providing Innovation Grants
to selected Participating Agricultural Universities for the carrying out of
Innovation Plans.

 

Carrying out institutional reforms within ICAR in order to enhance ICAR’s
effectiveness in coordinating, guiding and managing agricultural higher education,
as well as ICAR’s interaction with agricultural universities and key stakeholders

‘nationwide through interventions that increase the quality and relevance of

agricultural higher education, including: (a) assessing options in the administration
and award of ICAR’s technical and financial assistance to Agricultural
Universities; (b) structuring dialogue with State governments to catalyze their
participation in raising the quality and relevance of agricultural higher education;
(c) providing assistance to Participating Agricultural Universities for the
development of Institutional Development Plans, CAAST Proposals and
Innovation Plans; (d)} establishing partnerships with globally recognized
agricultural higher education institutions; (¢) developing digital information
systems for agricultural data collection, analysis and dissemination; (f) improving
curricula review processes and methods to consolidate and disseminate global
best-practices in agricultural education; (g) improving all-India entrance
examination in Agriculture, including an on-line national examination system; (h)
adopting next-generation management systems covering information,
procurement, contract and financial management areas; (i) coordinating an
Part 3:

-7-

external advisory panel of renowned agricultural education experts; (j) assisting
agricultural universities to strengthen their linkages with industry, and (k)
promoting the establishment of centers for career development at agricultural
universities.

Project Man { Leami

Strengthening ICAR’s management capacity for Project implementation,
including: (a) the establishment/maintenance of a Project Implementation Unit, a
Steering Committee, a Technical Committee and a Monitoring and Evaluation Cell
to ensure compliance with the Project's procurement, financial management,
safeguards and reporting requirements, and the carrying out of the administration,
supervision, monitoring and evaluation of IDP Grants, CAAST Grants and
Innovation Grants and/or proposals therefor; and (b) the provision of training to
ICAR and Participating Agricultural Universities to achieve and sustain increased
quality, relevance and effectiveness of agricultural higher education.
-8-

SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

 

A. Institutional Arrangements

l. The Borrower shall vest the overall responsibility for Project coordination and
implementation in ICAR, and to this end shall maintain ICAR in good standing
and operation throughout the period of Project implementation.

2. For purposes of paragraph | above, the Borrower shall cause ICAR to:

(a)

(b)

establish, by no later than three (3) months after the Effective Date and
prior to selecting any IDP, CAAST Proposal or Innovation Plan for
financing under an IDP Grant, CAAST Grant, or Innovation Grant, and
thereafter maintain throughout the period of Project implementation, a
Steering Committee, headed by ICAR’s Director General, and comprised
of representatives from the MoAFW, agricultural universities, private
sector and any other relevant institutions agreed between ICAR and the
Bank, as set forth in the Project Implementation Plan; which committee
shall: (i) provide strategic guidance to the Technical Committee and the
PIU, setting up policy directives and determining priority interventions for
agricultural higher education; (ii) approve IDPs, CAAST Proposals, and
Innovation Plans vetted by the Technical Committee, and award the
respective IDP Grants, CAAST Grants and Innovation Grants; and (iii)
monitor and evaluate the progress made in the implementation of the
Project and the achievement of its development objectives;

maintain throughout the period of Project implementation the Project
Implementation Unit (“PIU”) established within ICAR’s Education
Division, led by ICAR’s Deputy Director General (Education), assisted by
adequate professiona] and administrative staff in numbers, with
qualifications and experience, and under terms of reference agreed with
the Bank and set forth in the Project Implementation Plan; which unit shall
be vested with such powers, budget and functions as shall be required to:
(i) carry out the day-to-day implementation of Project activities including

procurement and financial management functions; (ii)
assist, monitor and evaluate Participating Agricultural Universities in their
preparation of IDPs, CAAST Proposals and Innovation Plans, and their
execution of IDP Grants, CAAST Grant and Innovation Grants; (iii)
prepare Project budgets and annual plans; (iv) monitor the progress of the
Project and prepare Project Reports; (v) prepare the Project’s Financial
(c)

-9-

Statements and interim unaudited financial reports; and (vi) ensure the
Project's adherence to/compliance with the Safeguard Documents; and

establish, by no later than six (6) months after the Effective Date and prior
to selecting any IDP, CAAST Proposal and/or Innovation Plan for the
award of an IDP Grant, CAAST Grant or Innovation Grant, and thereafter
maintain throughout the period of Project implementation, a Technical
Committee, with membership agreed with the Bank and set forth in the
Project Implementation Plan; which committee shall be vested with such
powers and functions as shall be required for it to: (3) screen, evaluate and
select Participating Agricultural Universities and their respective IDPs,
CAAST Proposals and/or Innovation Plans, pursuant to the eligibility
criteria set forth in the Project Implementation Plan, and recommend them
to the Steering Committee for approval and the provision of IDP Grants,
CAAST Grants and Innovation Grants, and (ii) apprise the Steering
Committee on the overall performance of the selected Participating
Agricultural Universities in the implementation thereof.

3. For purposes of carrying out the monitoring and evaluation activities set forth in
paragraph 2.(b)(ii), (iv) and (vi) above, the Borrower shall cause ICAR to:

(a)

(b)

establish by no later than ninety (90) days after the Effective Date, and
thereafter maintain throughout the period of Project implementation, a
Monitoring and Evaluation Cell within the PIU (“M&E Cell”), staffed
with qualified and experiences specialists, and under terms of reference
agreed with the Bank and set forth in the Project Implementation Plan;
which cell shall be responsible for, inter alia: (i) developing a monitoring
and tracking system to supervise Project activities and oversee the
progress of Project activities; (ii) identifying implementation bottlenecks
and propose corrective actions; and (iii) coordinate the Project’s overall
impact assessment, including economic and financial analysis of the
various Project parts/activities; and

select and hire, by no later than three (3) months after the Effective Date,
and thereafter maintain throughout the period of Project implementation:

(i) a qualified and experienced monitoring and evaluation expert or
consulting firm, under terms of reference agreed with the Bank
and set forth in the Project Implementation Plan, in order to assist
the M&E Cell in performing the monitoring and evaluation
functions provided in sub-paragraph 3.(a) above; and

(ii) a qualified and experienced monitoring and evaluation consulting

firm, under terms of reference agreed with the Bank and set forth
in the Project Implementation Plan, in order to carry out: (i) an
-10-

independent baseline survey of Project indicators. and (ii)
outcome-focused impact evaluations of Project activities at mid-
term Project implementation and Project completion, all in a
manner and substance agreed with the Bank.

For purpose of Section .B.1 of this Schedule the Borrower shall cause ICAR to
hire, by no later than nine (9) months after the Effective Date, and thereafter
maintain throughout the period of Project implementation, a firm of chartered
accountants, with qualification and experience and under terms of reference agreed
with the Bank and set forth in the FM Manual, in order to serve as internal auditors
and Carry out periodic internal audits of ICAR’s and the Participating Agricultural
Universities’ Project/Subproject accounts pursuant to the protocols and procedures
prescribed in the FM Manual.

Project Documents

The Borrower shall cause ICAR to implement the Project, and to ensure that the
Participating Agricultural Universities implement their IDPs and/or Innovation
Plans, and/or establish their CAASTs, all in accordance with the Project’s FM
Manual, Procurement Manual, Project Implementation Pian and Safeguards
Documents; provided however that in the event of conflict between the provisions
of said manuals and/or plan, on the one hand, and those of this Agreement, on the
other hand, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.

The Borrower shall cause ICAR to refrain from amending, suspending, waiving.
and/or voiding any provision of the FM Manual, the Procurement Manual, the
Project Implementation Plan or the Safeguards Documents, whether in whole or in
part, without the prior written concurrence of the Bank.

Anti-Corruption

The Borrower shall ensure, and cause ICAR to ensure, that the Project is carried
out in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
Institutional Development Pians, CAAST Proposals & Innovation Plans

For purposes of implementing Part | of the Project, the Borrower shal! cause ICAR
to:

(a) publicly invite all Agricultural Universities to submit IDPs, CAAST
Proposals and Innovation Plans m accordance with the procedures and
requirements set forth in the Project Implementation Pian;

(b) through the Technical Committee, screen the applicant Agricultural
Universities, as well as the IDPs, CAAST Proposals and/or Innovation
(c)

-l1-

Plans, in accordance with the protocols, readiness filters and eligibility
criteria, set forth in the Project Implementation Plan (including the
Agricultural Universities’ voluntary accreditation with ICAR). and
determine those Subprojects to be recommended to the Steering
Committee for approval: and

through the Steering Committee, approve the final list of Subprojects
selected for financing, and award the respective IDP Grants, CAAST
Grants or Innovation Grants, as the case may be.

Upon selection and approval of each IDP, CAAST Proposal and Innovation Plan
pursuant to paragraph | above, the Borrower shall cause ICAR to enter into a
performance-based written grant agreement with the respective Agricultural
University which submitted a selected plan/proposal for the extension of the
respective IDP Grant, CAAST Grant or Innovation Grant, as the case may be (the
“Grant Agreement”), under terms and conditions set forth in the Project
Implementation Plan, which shall:

(a)

(b)

(c)

provide for the release of the IDP Grant, CAAST Grant or Innovation
Grant, as the case may be, in tranches upon the Participating Agricultural
University having achieved pre-agreed indicators and/or milestones set
forth in the respective IDP, CAAST Proposal or Innovation Plan,

provide for the right of ICAR to: (i) suspend or terminate the right of the
Participating Agricultural University to withdraw and use the proceeds of
the IDP Grant, CAAST Grant or Innovation Grant, as the case may be,
and/or (ii) obtain a refund from any Participating Agricultural University.
of all or any part of the amount of the IDP Grant, CAAST Grant or
Innovation Grant then withdrawn, upon the Participating Agricultural
University’s failure to perform any of its obligations under the respective
Grant Agreement; and

require each Participating Agricultural University to:

(i) carry out the respective Subproject with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, economic,
financial, managerial, environmental and social standards and
practices acceptable to the Bank and set forth in the FM Manual,
the Procurement Manual, the Procurement Guidelines, the
Consultants Guidelines, the Safeguard Documents, the Anti-
Corruption Guidelines and the Project Implementation Plan,

(ii) provide, promptly as needed, the counterpart resources required
for the purpose of implementing the respective Subproject:
(iti)

(iv)

(v)

(vi)

(vii)

(viii)

(ix)

(x)

(xi)

procure the goods, works, consultants services and non-consulting
services to be financed out of the IDP Grant, CAAST Grant or
Innovation Grant, as the case may be, in accordance with the
provisions of this Agreement and the Procurement Manual:

adhere/subscribe to and follow the procurement complaint
handling mechanism established/prescribed by ICAR;

maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable ICAR to
monitor and evaluate the progress made in the implemientation of
the Subproject and the achievement of objectives thereof:

establish within ninety (90) days after the date of signing of the
Grant Agreement a monitoring and evaluation cell responsible for:
(A) developing a monitoring and evaluation plan and budget for
the Subproject; (B) preparing semi-annual and annual progress
report on financial and physica! performance of the Subproject;
(C) planning and developing monitoring and evaluation training
programs; and (D) designing and carrying out monitoring and
evaluation exposure sessions,

maintain a financial management system and prepare financial
statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting
standards agreed with the Bank and set forth in the FM Manual:

provide ICAR, on a quarterly basis, utilization certificates in
support of any amounts made available under the IDP Grant,
CAAST Grant or Innovation Grant, as the case may be, in form
and substance set forth in the FM Manual;

have annual Subproject financial statements audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with
consistently applied auditing standards agreed with the Bank and
set forth in the FM Manual, and promptly furnish the statement,
as so audited, to ICAR and the Bank;

enable ICAR and the Bank to inspect the sites of the Subprojects
as well as any relevant records and documents related thereto; and

prepare and furnish to ICAR and the Bank all such information as
ICAR or the Bank shall reasonably request relating to the
foregoing.
-]3-

The Borrower shall cause ICAR to exercise its rights under each Grant Agreement
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower, the Bank, and to
accomplish the Project’s development objective.

Safeguards
The Borrower shall cause ICAR to:

(a) implement Project activities, and ensure that the Participating Agricultural
Universities implement their respective Subprojects, in accordance with:
(i) the EAR EMF and the EAP; and (ii) the ESP(s) and/or the EAM(s)
prepared, and/or to be prepared, as the case may be, pursuant to paragraph
2 below, in accordance with the objectives, policies, procedures, time
schedules and other provisions set forth in the EAREMF and EAP (the
EA&EMF, EAP, ESP(s) and EAM(s) collectively referred to as the
“Safeguard Documents”), in each case in a manner and in substance
satisfactory to the Bank: and

(b) refrain from taking any action which would prevent or interfere with the
implementation of the Safeguard Documents, including any amendment,
suspension, waiver, and/or voidance of any provision of the EA&EMF or
the EAP, whether in whole or in part, without the prior written concurrence
of the Bank.

The Borrower shall ensure that, prior to: (a) ICAR’s selecting any Subproject for
financing under an IDP Grant, CAAST Grant or Innovation Grant; or (b) ICAR’s
and/or the Participating Agricultural University’s tendering of any bids for civil
works, or requesting expression of interest for the provision of technical services
under the Project or an IDP, CAAST Proposal or Innovation Plan, ICAR and, in
the case of Subprojects, the respective Participating Agricultural University shal
have:

(i) carried out an environmental and social screening/assessment of said
proposed civil works, technical services, IDP, CAAST Proposal or
Innovation Plan, as the case may be, in accordance with the principles,
standards and procedures set forth in the EA&EMF and EAP;

(ii) whenever required under the EAS&EMF and/or the EAP pursuant to the
screening process set forth in sub-paragraph 2.(i) above:

(A) prepared and adopted an ESP and/or EAM; and
(B) publicly‘ disclosed the foregoing Safeguard Documents, in local

language(s) at the relevant Project sites prior to tendering the
respective contracts for such civil works or technical services, or
-14.

the award of the respective IDP Grant, CAAST Grant or
Innovation Grant, as the case may be.

The Borrower shall ensure, and cause ICAR to ensure, that no activity under the
Project (including Participating Agricultural Universities’ Subprojects) shall: (a)
require the involuntary acquisition of land or give rise to Displaced Persons; and/or
(b) have, in the opinion of the Bank, significant adverse environmental impact of
sensitive, diverse and/or unprecedented nature.

The Borrower shal] ensure, and cause ICAR to ensure that, prior to ICAR's or the
Participating Agricultural Universities’ commencing any activity under the Project
and/or the respective Subprojects, as the case may be:

(a) all necessary governmental permits and clearances for such activity shall
have been obtained from the competent governmental authority/ies; and

(b) all pre-conditions imposed by the governmental authority/ies under such
permit(s) or clearance(s) shall have been complied with/fulfilled.

The Borrower shall ensure, and cause ICAR to ensure that, each contract for civil
works under the Project or under any of the Participating Agricultural Universities’
Subproject, includes the obligation of the relevant contractor to comply with the
relevant Safeguard Documents applicable to such civil works
commissioned/awarded pursuant to said contract.

The Borrower shall cause ICAR to establish by no later than six (6) months after
the Effective Date, and thereafter maintain and operate throughout the period of
Project implementation, a grievance redress mechanism/protocol for the handling
of any stakeholder complaints/grievances arising out of the implementation of
Project activities (including the Participating Agricultural Universities’
Subprojects), in a manner and substance agreed with the Bank.

The Borrower shall ensure, and cause ICAR to ensure, that: (a) any land required
for the Project (including any IDP, CAAST Proposal or Innovation Plan) shall be
procured on a willing-buyer/willing-eeller basis or obtained as a voluntary
donation/bequest, or any other voluntary means duly documented; and (b) any
expenditures associated with such acquisition be financed exclusively out of the
ICAR’s or the Participating Agricultural Universities’ own resources, as the case
may be.

The Borrower shall cause ICAR to: (a) maintain, and/or cause the Participating
Agricultural Universities to maintain, throughout the period of implementation of
the Project, monitoring and evaluation protocols and record keeping procedures
acceptable to the Bank and adequate to enable the Bank to supervise and assess,
on an on-going basis, the implementation of/compliance with the Safeguards
-15-

Documents, as well as the achievement of the objectives thereof; and (b) furnish
to the Bank as part of the Project Reports an assessment of the general compliance
with the Safeguard Documents, the social and environmental impact of Project
activities, and the results of the mitigation or benefit-enhancing measures applied
thereto, during the period preceding the date of each such report.

In the event of any conflict between the provisions of any of the Safeguard
Documents, on the one hand, and the provisions of this Agreement, on the other
hand, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.

Section I. = Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. Project Reports

i.

The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare,
and/or cause ICAR to prepare, Project Reports in accordance with the provisions
of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed
with the Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar
semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after
the end of the period covered by such report.

Financial Management, Financial Reports and Andits

The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.

Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of
each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering
the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.

The Borrower shall have the Project’s Financial Statements audited in accordance
with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of
the Financial Statements shal! cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower,
commencing with the fiscal year in which the first withdrawal was made. The
audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank
not later than nine (9) months after the end of such period.

Section TI. Procurement

A.

1,

General

Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. Ali goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
nN

-16-

of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.

Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.

Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts .
refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and Ill of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections I, III, ['V and V of the Consultant Guidelines,
as the case may be.

Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services

International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.

Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding,
may be used for procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for
those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) Limited International
Bidding; (b) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional provisions set
forth in the Procurement Plan; (c) Shopping; (d) procurement under Framework
Agreements in accordance with procedures which have been found acceptable to
the Bank, (e) Direct Contracting; (f) Force Account; and (g) Community
Participation procedures which have been found acceptable to the Bank.

Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services

Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality- and Cost-based Seiection.

Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following
methods, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants’ services for those contracts which are specified in the
Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based Selection; (b) Selection under a Fixed
Budget; (c) Least Cost Selection; (d) Selection based on Consultants’
Qualifications; (e) Single-source Selection of consulting firms; (f) Procedures set
forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of
-17-

Individual Consultants; and (g) Single-source procedures for the Selection of
Individual Consultants.

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

The Procurement Plan of ICAR and the Participating Agricultural Universities
shall set forth those contracts which shal] be subject to the Bank’s Prior Review.
All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.

Procurement Grievance Mechanism

The Borrower shall cause ICAR to establish, by no later than three (3) months after
the Effective Date, and thereafter maintain throughout the period of Project
implementation, and cause the Participating Agricultural Universities to adhere
to/follow, a system for the handling of procurement complaints, in a manner and
substance acceptable to the Bank, which system shall include, inter alia, the
maintenance of a complaint database, a standard protocol setting forth triggers for
carrying out investigations, and a sanctions regime. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, for any procurement done through International Competitive Bidding,
the Bank’s prescribed complaint redress mechanism shall apply.

Section IV. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

A.

1.

General

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the
“Disbursement Guidelines for Investment Project Financing” dated February
2017, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.

The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.
   

     
    
 
    
 
   
  
    
   

Amount of the

services for the Project (other 9,093,750
than those financed under
Subprojects), and Incremental
pe! atin y Costs.
(3) Front-end Fee 206,250

Percentage of
Expenditures to be
financed
(inclusive of Taxes)

  
     
       

    

  

to Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
Amount due pursuant to
Section 2.08(c) of this

ts CCST) ent

TOTAL AMOUNT | _82,500.000 | —_|
B. Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

  

(4) Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar premium

1. Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed sixteen million five hundred
thousand Dollars (USD16,500,000) may be made for payments made prior to this
date but on or after September 1, 2016 or the date one year prior to the date of this
Agreement, whichever is the shortest retroactive period, for Eligible Expenditures.

2. The Closing Date is November 30, 2022.
-19-

SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule

1. The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date (“Installment Share”). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal
Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such
repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.

Principal Payment Date Installment Share
pressed as a Percentage

On each February | and August |}

Beginning February 1, 2023
through August 1, 2035

On February 1, 2036

2. If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:

    
      
 

     

  

(a) To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn
Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph | of this
Schedule.

(b) Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shal) be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal mn amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph | of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Onginal Installment Share”)
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
‘date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
-20-

(a) Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
_ Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal
Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal.

(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions
of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after
the adoption of such billing system. |

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period,
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate
that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if
the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.

If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each
such amount.
-2]-

APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

L.

“Agricultural Universities” means, collectively, the agricultural universities
operating in the territory of the Borrower (at State or central level), the central
universities with agricultural faculty, and the research institutes operating under
the aegis of ICAR.

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 201! and as
of July 1, 2016.

“CAAST Grant” means one of the grants to be provided by ICAR to Participating
Agnicultura!l Universities, in the amount and under the terms and conditions set
forth in the respective Grant Agreement in accordance with the PIP, for purpose of
financing the carrying out of CAAST Proposals selected pursuant to Section I.D.1!
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“CAAST Proposal” means each of the proposals (to be) prepared by Agricultural
Universities pursuant to the provisions of the PIP, for purposes of establishing
Centers for Advanced Agriculture Science and Technology, including any
necessary research equipment, fellowships for faculty and scientists, student
scholarships and costs associated with twinning arrangement with similar centers
within the Borrower's territory or overseas.

“Category” means a category set forth in the table m Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.

“Centers for Advanced Agriculture Science and Technology” and the acronym
“CAAST™ mean, collectively, the multi-disciplinary centers for teaching, research
and extension on critical and emerging agricultural topics, to be established by
selected Participating Agricultural Universities in order to, inter alia: (a) offer
high-quality advanced post-graduate and doctorate programs to students; (b)
undertake targeted research and collaboration with national and international
centers of excellence; (c) coordinate series of lectures, visiting professorships,
fellowships and exchange programs for students and faculty with mentoring
universities; and (d) collaborate with industries for the dissemination/transfer of
agricultural technology, and the development of market-oriented programs and
industry-ready graduates.

“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers” dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
11.

-22.

“Displaced Persons” means persons who, on account of the execution of the
Project, have experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts
caused by: (a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of
shelter, (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources or
means of livelihood, whether or not such persons must move to another location:
or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and protected
areas, resulting in adverse impact on the livelihoods of such persons.

“EAS&EMF” means ICAR‘’s Environmental Assessment and Environmental
Management Framework for the National Agriculture Higher Education Project,
dated April 27, 2016 and disclosed in the Bank’s Infoshop on May 3, 2016, setting
forth: (a) the procedures for the screening of Project activities, including
Subprojects, and the identification of any adverse or positive environmental
impacts caused, or expected to be caused, on account of their implementation; and,
if needed; and (b) the preparation of their prescribed environmental impact
assessments and ESPs therefor, as such framework may be revised, updated or
supplemented from time to time with the prior written concurrence of the Bank.

“EAM” means each of the equity action measures to be prepared by ICAR and/or
the Participating Agricultural Universities, as the case may be, pursuant to Section
L.E.2(ii) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, in accordance with the provisions of the
EAP, in each case setting out the actions to be taken during the implementation of
Project activities to ensure the equitably inclusion and meaningful participation of
Tribal Groups, schedule cast and their communities, and vulnerable population in
the benefits of the Project, including proper representation in the students and
faculty cohorts of all Participating Agricultural Universities, all in a culturally
appropriate and socially inclusive manner.

“EAP” means ICAR’s Equity Action Plan (Indigenous People’s Policy
Framework), dated April 27, 2016, and disclosed in the Bank's Infoshop on May
2, 2016, setting forth, the principles, procedures, mitigation and adaptive measures
to be implemented by ICAR and/or the Participating Agricultural Universities, as
the case may be, to offset, reduce to acceptable levels or eliminate any adverse
social impact under the Project, including measures designed to ensure: (a)
meaningful consultation with, and informed participation of, Tribal Groups,
scheduled castes and their communities in the design and implementation of the
Project activities, as well as; (b) their envisioned participation in the benefits. of the
Project, in a culturally appropriate and socially inclusive manner, as such plan may
be amended from time to time with the prior written concurrence of the Bank

“ESP” means each of the environmental sustainability plans to be prepared by
ICAR and/or the Participating Agricultural Universities, as the case may be,
pursuant to Section 1-E.2(ii) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, in accordance with
the provisions of the EMF, in each case setting out mitigation, enhancement,
monitoring and institutional measures, including capacity building through
13.

14.

15.

16.

17.

training, required to: (a) eliminate adverse environmental impacts of activities to
be implemented under the Project (including Subprojects); (b) offset adverse
environmental impacts, or reduce them to acceptable levels; (c) enhance any
positive impacts thereof, and/or (d) ensure ICAR’s and the Participating
Agricultural Universities’ compliance with Borrower's statutory environmental
requirements consistent with the EMF. _-

“FM Manual” means ICAR's financial management manual dated June 21. 2017,
and adopted by ICAR as part of the PIP, setting forth detailed guidance on
delegation of powers and financial management duties, internal control protocols,
accounting and record keeping procedures, funds flow arrangements, withdrawal
applications procedures, asset management, reporting and auditing arrangements
applicable to the Project; as such manual may be revised, updated or supplemented,
from time to time, with the prior written concurrence of the Bank.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.

“Grant Agreement” means, each of the agreements to be entered into, by and
between ICAR and the Participating Agricultural Universities pursuant to Section
I.D.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“ICAR’s Enabling Legal Framework” means Memorandum of Association Rules
and By-Laws of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research Society, in force with
effect from April 3, 1975, as revised on July 12, 2001.

“IDP Grant” means one of the grants to be provided by ICAR to Participating
Agricultural Universities, in the amount and under the terms and conditions set
forth in the respective Grant Agreement in accordance with the PIP, for purposes
of financing the carrying out of Institutional Development Plans selected pursuant
to Section I.D.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Incremental Operating Costs” means the reasonable costs of incremental
expenditures incurred by ICAR in the implementation of the Project, which
expenditures would not have been incurred in absence of the Project, including,
inter alia: office space rental and utilities; office maintenance and repair; office
consumables, vehicles rental, operation and maintenance; communication, printing
and/or publication expenses; staff per diems, field allowances, travel expenses;
bank charges; insurance premia; and salaries of civil servants on full-time
deputation to ICAR (but excluding other civil servants’ salaries).

“Indian Council of Agricultural Research” and the acronym “ICAR” mean the

autonomous organization formerly known as the Imperial Council of Agricultural
Research, set up under the Department of Agricultural Research and Education of
20.

21.

23.

24.

25.

26.

27.

24.

the MoAFW,, originally established on July 16, 1929 as a registered society under
the Borrower’s Societies Registration Act. 1860, as per Registration No. 2498,
dated May 5, 1976.

“Innovation Grant” means one of the grants to be provided by ICAR to
Participating Agricultural Universities, in the amount and under the terms and
conditions set forth in the respective Grant Agreement in accordance with the PIP,
for purposes of financing the carrying out of Innovation Plans selected pursuant to
Section 1.D.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Innovation Plan” means each of the innovation reform plans (to be) prepared by
Agricultural Universities pursuant to the provisions of the PIP, for purposes of: (a)
achieving ICAR’s accreditation; and (b) promoting the mentoring of agricultural
universities not yet accredited with ICAR by other reform-ready ICAR-accredited
universities, and/or through national or international academic parmership with
prestigious universities.

“Institutional Development Pian” and the acronym “IDP” mean each of the plans
(to be) prepared by Agricultural Universities pursuant to the provisions of the PIP,
for purposes of inter alia: (a) building their capacity to undertake governance
reforms that promote autonomy and sustained ICAR accreditation; (b)
updating/upgrading their infrastructure for teaching and research; (c) improving
their faculty strength and academic capabilities; (d) establishing liaisons with
industry and/or other high-performing learning institutions; (e) launching
certificate programs to increase vocational training opportunities; (f) improving
students job placements; and (g) generating own-revenue streams.

“MoAFW” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare,
or any successor thereto.

“Monitoring and Evaluation Cell” and the acronym “M&E Cell” mean the ceil to
be established by ICAR pursuant to Section 1.A.3.(a) of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.

“Participating Agricultural Universities” means Agricultural Universities which

have entered into Grant Agreements with ICAR for the financing of IDPs, CAAST
Proposal or Innovation Plans.

“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
Worid Bank Borrowers” dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).

“Procurement Manual” means ICAR’s procurement manual dated June 21, 2017,
and adopted by ICAR as part of the PIP, setting forth the guiding principles and
policies of procurement, the implementation arrangements and allocation of
28.

29.

30.

31.
32.
33.

34.

35.

36.

procurement responsibilities, the public disclosure of documents and reporting
requirements on procurement progress under the Project (including the
Subprojects), and the procedures for the filing and handling of any procurement
complaint related to the Project; as such manual may be amended from time to
time with the prior written concurrence of the Bank.

“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower's and the Participating Agricultural
Universities procurement plan for the Project, dated June 21, 2017 and referred to
in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the
Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time ‘to time in
accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.

“Project Implementation Plan” and the acronym “PJP” mean ICAR’s
implementation plan dated/adopted on August 23, 2016, setting forth the detailed
implementation and institutional arrangements for the Project, including eligibility
criteria and applicable protocols for the screening/selection of Participating
Agricultural Universities and their IDPs, CAAST Proposals and innovation Plans,
as well as the terms and conditions for the respective IDP Grants, the CAAST
Grants and the Innovation Grants, which plan includes the FM Manual and the
Procurement Manual, as the same may be amended from time to time with the
prior written concurrence of the Bank. |

“Project Implementation Unit” and the acronym “PIU” mean the unit established
pursuant to Office Order No. 17(3)/2016 Estt-1, dated October 25, 2016 and
referred to in Section 1.A.2.(b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Safeguard Documents” means, collectively the EA&EMF, the EAP, the ESP(s)
and EAM(s).

“State” means any of the States or Union Territories that are an integral part, and
conform the territory, of the Borrower.

“Steering Committee” means the committee to be established by ICAR pursuant
to Section 1.A.2.(a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Subproject” means, each Institutional Development Plan, CAAST Proposal or
Innovation Plan selected pursuant to Section LD. of Schedule 2 of this Agreement,
for financing through a Grant Agreement for an IDP Grant, CAAST Grant or
Innovation Grant as applicable.

“Technical Committee” means the committee to be established by ICAR pursuant
to Section 1.A.2.(c) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Training and Workshops” means the reasonable costs of training, workshops and
conferences attended or provided by ICAR and/or the Participating Agricultural
Universities’ faculty, students or staff, conducted in the territory of the Borrower
and/or, subject to the Bank’s prior agreement, overseas; which costs include, inter
alia, training institutions’ and courses’ fees, logistics expenses, rental of training
facilities, purchase and publication of training materials, and travel and subsistence
allowances for trainers and/or trainees.

37. “Tribal Groups” means any distinct, vulnerable, social and cultural group within
the territory of the Borrower, that: (a) self-identifies as such and claims, and is
recognized by others as, having a distinguishable cultural identity: (b) has
collective attachment to geographically distinct habitats or ancestral territories in
the area of influence of Project activities, and to the natural resources in these
habitat and territories; (c) has customary cultural, economic, social and political
institutions that are separate from those of the dominant society and culture; and
(d) has an indigenous language, often different from the official language of the
Borrower.

Section [1. Modifications to the General Conditions

The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:
1. In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.

2. Section 3.01. (Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
“Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge

(a) The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at
the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the “Front-end Fee”).

(b) The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the
“Commitment Charge”). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty
(60) days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective dates on which
amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan Account or cancelled. The
Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment
Date.”

3. In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and
paragraphs are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in
paragraph 2 above.

4. The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of “Commitment Charge”, and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs
accordingly:
.27-

“19. “Commitment Charge” means the commitment charge specified in the
Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b).~

In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the
definition of “Front-end Fee” is modified by replacing the reference to Section
3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).

In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the
definition of the term “Loan Payment” is modified to read as follows:

“68. “Loan Payment” means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the
Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, mcluding
(but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-
end Fee, the Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any
surcharge, any prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early
termination of a Conversion, the Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any
premium payable upon the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar, and any Unwinding Amount payable by the Borrower.“

In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the
definition of “Payment Date” is modified by deleting the word “is” and inserting
the words “and Commitment Charge are” after the word “interest”.
