Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

 

 

LOAN NUMBER 8715-ID

Loan Agreement

Increasing PT Indonesia Infrastructure Finance Financing Capacity in Accelerating
Infrastructure Development in Indonesia /
Additional Financing for Indonesia Infrastructure Finance Facility Project

between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION

AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated MAY 29 , 2017
2 of 20 LN 8715-ID

LOAN NUMBER 8715-ID

LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated May 2g , 2017, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(““Bank’’) for the purpose of providing additional financing for the Original Project (as defined in the
Appendix to this Agreement). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:

1.01.

1.02.

2.01.

2.02.

2.03.

2.04.

2.05.

2.06.

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an integral
part of this Agreement.

Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have the
meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IT — LOAN

The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in this Agreement, the amount of two hundred million United States Dollars (USD
200,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to
assist in financing the project described in Schedule | to this Agreement (‘‘Project’).

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not later than sixty
(60) days after the Effective Date.

The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.

The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to the
Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, however, that the
interest payable shall in no event be less than zero percent (0%) per annum; and provided
furthermore that, upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be
determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid
when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable
by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General
Conditions.

The Payment Dates are April 1 and October | in each year.
2.07.

2.08.

2.09.

3 of 20 LN 8715-ID

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

(a)

(b)

(b)

The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the terms
of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of the Loan
Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or
unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (11) a change of the interest rate basis
applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all or any portion
of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate
based on a Reference Rate and the Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed
Reference Rate and the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of
limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an
Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.

Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is accepted by
the Bank shall be considered a “‘Conversion’’, as defined in the General Conditions, and
shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General
Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.

If on any given day, the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit (as said
terms are defined in sub-paragraphs (b)(ii) and (b)(1ii) of this Section), the Borrower
shall pay to the Bank a surcharge at the rate of one half of one percent (0.5%) per
annum of the Allocated Excess Exposure Amount (as defined in sub-paragraph (b)(i)
of this Section) for each said day (“Exposure Surcharge’). The Exposure Surcharge (if
any) shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date.

For purposes of this Section the following terms have the meanings set forth below:

(1) ‘Allocated Excess Exposure Amount” means for each day during which the
Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit, the product of: (A) the
total amount of said excess; and (B) the ratio of all (or, if the Bank so
determines, a portion) of the Loan to the aggregate amount of all (or the
equivalent portions) of the loans made by the Bank to the Borrower and to other
borrowers guaranteed by the Borrower that are also subject to an exposure
surcharge, as said excess and ratio are reasonably determined from time to time
by the Bank.

(11) “Standard Exposure Limit” means the standard limit on the Bank’s financial
exposure to the Borrower which, if exceeded, would subject the Loan to the
Exposure Surcharge, as determined from time to time by the Bank.

(iii) ““Total Exposure” means for any given day, the Bank’s total financial exposure
to the Borrower, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
3.01.

3.02.

4.01.

4.02.

4 of 20 LN 8715-ID

ARTICLE III — PROJECT

The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by PTSMI and the Company in accordance
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and the Project Agreement.

Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as the
Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the Project 1s
carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK

The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

(f)

either of the parties to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall have failed to perform any
of its obligations thereunder; or

PTSMI shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Shareholders
Agreement; or

either of the parties to the Subordinated Debt Arrangement shall have failed to perform
any of its respective obligations thereunder; or

the Company shall have failed to perform any of its obligations as mandated under the
Business License; or

either of: (i) the Borrower’s Government Regulation Number 66/2007 as amended by
the Borrower’s Government Regulation Number 75/2008 on the capital participation
of the Borrower for the establishment of PTSMI; or (ii) the Borrower’s Presidential
Regulation Number 9/2009 on financial institutions; or (111) the Borrower’s Ministry of
Finance Regulation Number 100/PMK.010/2009 on infrastructure financial
institutions or its implementing regulations shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the carrying out
of the Project; or

any of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the Subordinated Debt Arrangement, the
Shareholders Agreement, the Articles of Association, the Business License or the
Operations Manual shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the carrying out of the Project.

The Additional Events of Acceleration consist of the following: any event specified in Section
4.01 of this Agreement occurs.
5.01.

5.02.

5.03.

6.01.

6.02.

6.03.

5 of 20 LN 8715-ID

ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, acceptable to the Bank, shall have been duly executed
and delivered on behalf of the Borrower and PTSMI and shall have become effective
and binding upon such parties in accordance with their respective terms, subject only
to the effectiveness of this Loan Agreement;

the Subordinated Debt Arrangement, acceptable to the Bank, shall have been duly
executed and delivered by or on behalf of PTSMI and the Company and shall have
become effective and binding upon such parties in accordance with their respective
terms, subject only to the effectiveness of this Loan Agreement;

the Project Agreement, shall have been duly executed and delivered on behalf of
PTSMI and the Company and shall have become effective and binding upon PTSMI
and the Company in accordance with their respective terms; and

the Action Plan, acceptable to the Bank, shall have been adopted and publicly disclosed
on its website by the Company.

The Additional Legal Matters consist of the following: legal opinions that each of the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the Subordinated Debt Arrangement has been duly authorized
by or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the respective parties thereto, and is
legally binding upon such parties in accordance with its terms, subject only to the effectiveness
of this Loan Agreement.

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and twenty (120) days after the date of this
Agreement.

ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance.

The Borrower’s Address 1s:

Directorate General of Budget Financing and Risk Management
Ministry of Finance

Gedung Frans Seda

Jalan Dr. Wahidin Raya No. 1

Jakarta 10710, Indonesia

Facsimile: +62-21-381-2859

The Bank’s Address 1s:

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America

Facsimile: 1-202-477-6391
6 of 20 LN 8715-ID

AGREED at Jakarta, Republic of Indonesia, as of the day and year first above written.

REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

— * ?
By ~
cea

Authorized Representative h

DIRECTOR GENERAL OF BUDGET FINAMLING

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

 
7 of 20 LN 8715-ID

SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to strengthen the financial capacity of IIF to increase the access
of private sector financing for infrastructure in Indonesia.

The Project consists of the following Part:

Deployment of Investment Capital

Provide loans, guarantees, equity investments and other financial products, as well as advisory
services for selected infrastructure Sub-projects in Indonesia through the Company.
8 of 20 LN 8715-ID

SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Section I. Implementation Arrangements
A. Subsidiary Agreements

l. Subsidiary Loan Agreement. To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall
make the entire proceeds of the Loan available to PTSMI through a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement between the Borrower and PTSMI, under terms and conditions acceptable to the
Borrower and the Bank, which, unless otherwise agreed between the Borrower and the Bank,
shall include the following:

(a) the terms for relending the proceeds of the Loan shall be, denominated in Rupiah, with
a repayment period of twenty (20) years, including a grace period of at least ten (10)
years, and an interest rate of the Borrower’s bonds (“SUN”) benchmark series with
twenty (20) years maturity; and

(b) the obligations of PTSMI and the Company to use the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement and the Subordinated Debt Arrangement, respectively, for the purposes of
the Project in accordance with the Project Agreement and the Operations Manual.

2. Subordinated Debt Arrangement

(a) To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall cause PTSMI to make
the entire proceeds of the Loan available to the Company through a Subordinated Debt
Arrangement between PTSMI and the Company, under terms and conditions
acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank, which shall include the requirement that the
Company use the proceeds of the Subordinated Debt Arrangement exclusively for the
purposes of the Project in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement and
the Operations Manual.

(b) For the avoidance of doubt, the obligation of the Borrower to repay the Loan 1s not
subordinated in any manner, notwithstanding the subordinated nature of the
Subordinated Debt Arrangement and notwithstanding any failure by the Company to
meet any obligations under the Subordinated Debt Arrangement or any failure by
PTSMI to meet any repayment obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.

3. The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and shall cause
PTSMI to exercise its rights under the Subordinated Debt Arrangement, in such manner as to
protect the interest of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Project.
The Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or
any of its provisions, and shall cause PTSMI not to assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Subordinated Debt Arrangement or any of its provisions, without the prior agreement of the
Borrower and the Bank.
9 of 20 LN 8715-ID

To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Co-
financing available to PTSMI and PTSMI shall make the proceeds of the Co-financing
available to the Company, in each case in accordance with the terms of the Co-financing
Agreement.

The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and shall cause
PTSMI to exercise its rights under the Subordinated Debt Arrangement, in such manner as to
ensure that the Company shall hire an independent audit firm - if deemed necessary by the
Borrower and the Bank and with a reasonable prior written notice from the Borrower through
PTSMI to the Company - to conduct an audit under terms of reference and according to a
schedule satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank, which shall cover technical, financial and
procurement aspects of all Sub-projects.

Institutional Arrangements
The Borrower shall cause the PTSMI and the Company to implement the Project.

Operations Manual. Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph A.1 above, the
Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement to cause PTSMI to
exercise its rights as a Shareholder in the Company and its rights under the Subordinated Debt
Arrangement to cause the Company to:

(a) carry out the Project, and cause each Sub-project Enterprise to carry out the Project, in
accordance with the Operations Manual, acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank,
setting out (i) Sub-project eligibility, due diligence and selection criteria,
implementation requirements, and terms and conditions for Sub-Project Agreements;
(11) the SEMS and the requirements for its implementation by the Company and by all
Sub-Project Enterprises; (111) procurement procedures consistent with those set out in
Section III of this Schedule 2 including the right of the Bank to undertake review of
any contract procured using the proceeds of the Loan upon notice by the Bank to the
Borrower; (iv) financial management procedures consistent with those set out in
Section II of this Schedule 2; (v) monitoring and evaluation criteria and performance
indicators consistent with those referred to in Section II of this Schedule 2, including
reporting consistent with that which would be undertaken by a listed company in
Indonesia; and (vi) Integrity Due Diligence Procedures and the requirements for their
implementation by the Company and by all Sub-Project Enterprises; and

(b) provide to each of the Borrower and the Bank for its prior concurrence any revision
proposed to be introduced into the Operations Manual with respect to environmental
safeguards matters, social safeguards matters, procurement and financial management
arrangements or anti-corruption issues (provided that the Company shall seek the
Borrower’s and the Bank’s prior concurrence for all other material revisions of the
Operations Manual that adversely affect the Borrower’s or the Company’s obligations
in this Agreement and the Project Agreement), and thereafter approve only such
revisions to the Operations Manual as shall have been agreed with the Bank and the
Borrower.
10 of 20 LN 8715-ID

Social and Environmental Management System (SEMS) . The Borrower shall exercise its
rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement to cause PTSMI to exercise its rights as a
Shareholder in the Company and its rights under the Subordinated Debt Arrangement to cause
the Company to ensure that:

(a) the SEMS shall at all times include the following provisions:

(1) a description of the categories of Sub-projects, including: (A) Sub-projects in
the early stages of preparation for sites that have not been selected and design
options are still open; (B) Sub-projects that have been fully prepared (where
construction bids have been invited); (C) Sub-projects that have already been
implemented or for which construction is completed; and (D) fee-based
advisory services;

(11) (A) environmental screening criteria, environmental assessment,
environmental management plan and consultation and disclosure requirements
for each type of Sub-project, including analyses of natural habitats, cultural
property, forests and safety of dams, as applicable, consistent with the
regulations of the Borrower and the policies of the Bank; (B) land acquisition
and resettlement plan and compensation criteria, and consultation and
disclosure requirements for each type of Sub-project; and (C) screening criteria
and actions designed to facilitate a process of free, prior and informed
consultation leading to broad community support involving Indigenous
Peoples including Indigenous Peoples plans, where required, and consultation
and disclosure requirements for each type of Sub-project; in each case
consistent with the regulations of the Borrower and the policies of the Bank
and acceptable to the Borrower, the Bank and the Company;

(iii) | implementation arrangements, including staffing responsibilities for screening
Sub-projects, designing safeguards instruments, arranging for consultations
and disclosure, monitoring and evaluation and reporting arrangements and
remedial measures; and

(iv) institutional capacity planning and strengthening for the Company;

(b) the Company shall implement the SEMS and cause each Sub-project Enterprise to
implement the SEMS in carrying out its respective Sub-project;

(c) the Company shall implement the Action Plan in a manner satisfactory to the Bank;
and

(d) the Company shall revise the SEMS to reflect the applicable actions under the Action
Plan, as soon as practicable.

Sub-Project Agreements. Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph B.2 above, the
Borrower shall cause PTSMI to cause the Company to finance each Sub-project in accordance
with the Operations Manual through a Sub-project Agreement on terms and conditions which
shall include:
11 of 20 LN 8715-ID

(a) that the Company shall obtain rights adequate to protect its interests and those of the
Borrower and the Bank, including the right of the Company to suspend or terminate
the right of the Sub-project Enterprise to use the proceeds of the Sub-project Agreement
and the obligation of the Sub-project Enterprise to refund all or any part of the amount
of the financing provided to the Sub-project Enterprise upon such Sub-project
Enterprise’s failure to perform any of its obligations under its Sub-projyect Agreement
with the Company or under the Operations Manual;

(b) the requirement that each Sub-project Enterprise:

(1) carry out its Sub-project in accordance with the Operations Manual, including:
(A) the SEMS; and (B) the Integrity Due Diligence Procedures;

(11) procure the goods, works and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Sub-project Agreement in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement;

(11) (A) maintain a financial management system and prepare financial statements
in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards adequate to
reflect its operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Sub-project;
and (B) at the Bank’s or the Borrower’s request, have such financial statements
audited (annual audit) by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in
accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the
Bank, and promptly furnish the statements as so audited to the Borrower and
the Bank;

(iv) permit the Borrower and the Bank to inspect the Sub-project, its operation and
any relevant accounts, records and other documents relating to the Sub-project;
and

(v) prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the Bank all such information as the
Borrower or the Bank shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing; and

(c) that the Company shall exercise its rights under each Sub-project Agreement in such
manner as to ensure that the Sub-project is carried out in accordance with the
Operations Manual and to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank.

Shareholders Agreement. The Borrower shall cause PTSMI to exercise its voting powers in
relation to the Company and all powers of control available in relation to its nominee to the
Board of Commissioners and Board of Directors of the Company (if any) in favor of the
Company undertaking the Project in accordance with the Operations Manual.

Financial Covenant. (a) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement to cause PTSMI to
exercise its rights under the Shareholders Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement to
such that the Company shall not incur any subordinated debt if after the incurrence of such
subordinated debt, the ratio of subordinated debt to equity shall be greater than 5 to 1.
Section II.

A.

1.

(b)

12 of 20 LN 8715-ID

For purposes of this paragraph:

(1)

(11)

(111)

(iv)

The term “subordinated debt” means any indebtedness of the Company under:
(A) the Subordinated Loan Agreement; (B) the contract, agreement or other
instrument between the Company and PTSMI pursuant to which the proceeds
of the Co-financing Agreement are made available to the Company; and (C)
any other contract, agreement or other instrument under which the repayment
obligations of the Company to the lender are subordinated to those of certain
senior lenders with regard to claims on the Company's assets or earnings.

Subordinated debt shall be deemed to be incurred under the loan contract or
agreement or other instrument providing for such subordinated debt or for the
modification of its terms of payment, on the date, and to the extent that, the
amount of such subordinated debt has become outstanding pursuant to such
contract, agreement or instrument.

The term “equity” means the sum of the total unimpaired paid-up capital,
retained earnings and reserves of the Company not allocated to cover specific
liabilities.

Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to value, in
terms of Rupiah, subordinated debt payable in another currency, such valuation
shall be made on the basis of the prevailing Bank Indonesia middle rate of
exchange at which such other currency is, at the time of such valuation,
obtainable for the purposes of servicing such subordinated debt, or, in the
absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the
Borrower and the Bank.

Anti-Corruption

The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the Anti-Corruption
Guidelines and that the relevant provisions of such guidelines are included in the Sub-project
Agreement and the procurement documents for each respective Sub-project, in each case in a

manner satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank.

Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

Project Reports

The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and, through PTSMI,
prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Bank. Each Project Report shall
cover the period of one (1) calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than
forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such report.
13 of 20 LN 8715-ID

Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits

The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions.

Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall cause PTSMI
and the Company to prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after
the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering
the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.

The Borrower shall cause PTSMI and the Company to have their Financial Statements audited
in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of
the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6)
months after the end of such period.

Each of PTSMI and the Company shall establish and maintain a financial management system
and prepare financial reports and audits in accordance with Section II.B of the Project
Agreement.

Annual Social and Environmental Performance Report

Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall cause PTSMI
to cause the Company to prepare and furnish to the Bank, not later than six (6) months after
the end of each calendar year, an annual social and environmental performance report in
accordance with the requirements in the SEMS.

Section ITI. Procurement

General

Goods and Works. All goods and works required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred
to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.

Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth
or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and with the provisions of this
Section.

Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to the
corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the Procurement Guidelines, or
Sections II, III, 1V and V of the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.

Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
Goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Well-established

Private Sector Procurement Methods or Commercial Practices which have been found
acceptable to the Bank and as set out in the Operations Manual.
14 of 20 LN 8715-ID

C, Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services

l. Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Well-
established Private Sector Procurement Methods or Commercial Practices which have been
found acceptable to the Bank and as set out in the Operations Manual.

D. Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

All contracts may, upon notice by the Bank to the Borrower, be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.

Section IV. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A, General

l. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions of
Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines
for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable
to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth
in the table in paragraph 2 below.

2. The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each
Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each
Category.

Category Amount of the Loan Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated to be financed
(inclusive of Taxes)

(1) Company Investments in
Sub-projects

 

B. Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
l. Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made:

(a) from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end
Fee: or

(b) for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.

2. The Closing Date is February 28, 2022.
15 of 20 LN 8715-ID

SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage of
the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date (“Installment
Share”). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal
Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance
as of the first Principal Payment Date: by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment
Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in
paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.

Principal Payment Date Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)

April 1, 2027 26%
April 1, 2032
October 1, 2036
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment

Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment
Date shall be determined as follows:

 
  

 
  
      

(a) To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance as of
such date in accordance with paragraph | of this Schedule.

(b) Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on each
Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts determined
by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the
numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph
1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share’) and
the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original Installment Shares for
Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, such amounts repayable to be
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this
Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.

(a) Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any Principal
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on
the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be
repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal
Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.

(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any time
the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on or after
the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no
longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
16 of 20 LN 8715-ID

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved Currency,
the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any Principal Payment
Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying
such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (1)
the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by
the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (11) if the Bank
so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of
the Screen Rate.

If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions
of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so
as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
17 of 20 LN 8715-ID

APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

1.

“Action Plan” means the environmental and social action plan to be developed and adopted by
the Company, acceptable to the Bank, containing: (a) measures to further develop the
environmental and social safeguards technical capacity of IIF; and (b) measures to support
monitoring, among others, for high risk Sub-projects.

‘Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the ‘‘Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and
Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”, dated October
15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.

“Articles of Association of the Company” means the prevailing Articles of Association of the
Company.

“Bank Indonesia” means the central bank of the Borrower, and any successor thereto.

‘Business License” means the license issued by the government of Indonesia to the Company
pursuant to which the Company shall be licensed to carry out the Project.

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.

“Co-financier” means the Asian Development Bank, referred to in paragraph 15 of the
Appendix to the General Conditions.

“Co-financing” means, for purposes of paragraph 16 of the Appendix to the General
Conditions, an amount of USD100,000,000 provided by the Co-financier to assist 1n financing
the Project.

“Co-financing Agreement” means the agreement entered into between the Borrower and the
Co-financier providing for the Co-financing.

“Company” or “IIF” mean PT Indonesia Infrastructure Finance (IIF), the limited liability
company incorporated and established under the laws of the Republic of Indonesia which is
responsible for carrying out the Project as the Project Implementing Entity.

“Company Investments” means loans, guarantees, equity investments and other financial
products, as well as advisory services provided by the Company to a Sub-project Enterprise,
in each case for the purpose of an eligible Sub-project, upon completion of preparation and
appraisal of such Sub-project in full compliance with the provisions of the Operations Manual.

“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers” dated January
2011 (revised July 2014).
13.

14.

15.

16.

20.

21.

22.

23.

24.

18 of 20 LN 8715-{D

‘-ESSF” means the Environmental and Social Safeguards Framework dated March 29, 2011,
as such document may be revised from time to time by the Company with the agreement of the
Borrower and the Bank.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for Loans”, dated March 12, 2012, with the modifications set forth in
Section II of this Appendix.

“Integrity Due Diligence Procedures” means the procedures set out in a stand-alone chapter of
the Operations Manual and incorporated by reference in the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the
Subordinated Debt Arrangement and each Sub-project Agreement, setting out the steps to be
taken by the Company, in making Company Investments, and by each Sub-project Enterprise,
in executing a Sub-project, in order to identify, mitigate, report and cooperate in the
investigation of, and make restitution for, corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive and
obstructive practices and other governance risks in the Project and each Sub-project.

‘Indigenous Peoples” means those social groups in the Borrower’s territory that have a distinct,
vulnerable, social and cultural identity, and that possess the following characteristics in
varying degrees: (a) self-identification as members of a distinct indigenous cultural group and
recognition of this identity by others; (b) collective attachment to geographically distinct
habitats or ancestral territories in the Project area and to the natural resources in these habitats
and territories; (c) customary cultural, economic, social, or political institutions that are
separate from those of the dominant society and culture; and (d) an indigenous language.

“MOF” means the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower, or any successor thereto.

“Operations Manual” means the Operations Manual meeting the requirements of paragraph 2
of Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, agreed between the Borrower and the Bank
and as such manual may be revised from time to time by the Company with the agreement of
the Borrower and the Bank.

“Original Loan Agreement” means the agreement between the Borrower and the Bank in
relation to a loan in an amount of USD 100,000,000 (Loan No. 7731-ID) for the Indonesia
Infrastructure Finance Facility Project, dated January 15, 2010 as amended to the date of this
Agreement).

“Original Project” means the Project described in Schedule | to the Original Loan Agreement.
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-
consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers” dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).

‘Project Implementing Entity” means the Company.

“PTSMI” means PT Sarana Multi Infrastruktur (PERSERO), a state-owned enterprise
incorporated and established under the laws of the Borrower, or any successor thereto.

“Rupiah” means Rupiah, the currency of the Borrower.
25.

26.

27.

28.

29.

30.

31.

32.

33.

34.

19 of 20 LN 8715-ID

‘“SEMS” or “Social and Environmental Management System” means the Company’s social
and environmental system document dated December 2014 prepared on the basis of ESSF and
included as a stand-alone chapter of the Operations Manual, as such document may be revised
from time to time by the Company with the agreement of the Borrower and the Bank, each
revision to be disclosed by the Company on tts website.

‘Shareholder’ means a shareholder of the Company and “Shareholders” means two or more
shareholders of the Company.

‘Shareholders Agreement” means an agreement dated March 19, 2012 between the founding
Shareholders of the Company, including, but not limited to the Asian Development Bank,
Deutsche Investitions und Entwicklungsgesellschaft mbH, the International Finance
Corporation and PTSMI as may be revised and restated from time to time.

‘Subordinated Debt Arrangement” means the contract, agreement or other instrument
(including an arrangement providing for the use perpetual or convertible capital instrument)
between PTSMI and the Company for the unsecured debt in the principal amount of the Rupiah
equivalent of up to two hundred million United States Dollars (USD200,000,000) under terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower, referred to in paragraph 2 of Section
].A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

‘Subordinated Debt to Equity Ratio” means the ratio set out in paragraph 6 of Section I.B of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Subordinated Loan Agreement” means the agreement between PTSMI and the Company
dated April 20, 2011 under which the PTSMI passes to the Company the proceeds of the loan
provided for under the Original Loan Agreement.

“Sub-project” means an eligible infrastructure project for which the Company will make an
investment, in each case in accordance with the Operations Manual, and “Sub-projects”’ means
more than one Sub-project.

“‘Sub-project Agreement” means an agreement to be entered into between the Company and a
Sub-project Enterprise in respect of an investment for a Sub-project in accordance with the
Operations Manual.

“Sub-project Enterprise” means an enterprise which has been selected in accordance with the
provisions of the Operations Manual to be the recipient of a Sub-project financing by the
Company in respect of a Sub-project.

“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement between the Borrower and PTSMI on the
terms and conditions for the on-lending of the proceeds of the Loan, on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower, referred to in paragraph | of Section I.A of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
20 of 20 LN 8715-ID

Section IT. Modifications to the General Conditions |
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:

l. In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section numbers are
modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.

2. Section 3.01. (Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
“Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge

(a) The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at the rate
specified in the Loan Agreement (the “Front-end Fee’’).

(b) The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the Unwithdrawn Loan
Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the “Commitment Charge”). The
Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty (60) days after the date of the Loan
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from the
Loan Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually in arrears
on each Payment Date.”

3. In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and paragraphs are
modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in paragraph 2 above.

4. The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following definition of
“Commitment Charge”, and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs accordingly:

“19. “Commitment Charge” means the commitment charge specified in the Loan
Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b).”
