Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

 

 

LOAN NUMBER 8717-ID

Loan Agreement

(National Affordable Housing Program Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION

AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated Novemprr. 0 , 2017
2 of 21 8717-ID

LOAN NUMBER 8717-ID
LOAN AGREEMENT

Agreement dated NéveMP&R 20 7017, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(“Bank”).

WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower has developed Bantuan Stimulan Perumahan Swadaya
(“BSPS”), a home improvement assistance program for Lower Income Households, with a budget
estimate of approximately USD 460,000,000, subject to the Borrower’s budget allocation, for the
period of 2017-2020;

(B) the Borrower has also developed Bantuan Pembiayaan Perumahan Berbasis Tabungan
(“BP2BT’), a mortgage-linked down payment assistance program for Lower Income Households, with
a budget estimate of approximately USD 50,000,000, subject to the Borrower’s budget allocation, for
the period of 2017-2020; and

(C) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described
in Schedule | to this Agreement (“Project”), which includes, inter alia, BSPS and BP2BT, has
requested the Bank to extend a loan in the financing of the Project:

NOW THEREFORE, the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01. The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an integral
part of this Agreement.

1.02. Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have the
meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this Agreement.

ARTICLE II — LOAN

2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in this Agreement, the amount of four hundred and fifty million United States Dollars (USD
450,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement (““Loan’’), to
assist in financing the Project.

2.02. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

2.03. The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not later than sixty
days after the Effective Date.
2.04.

2.05.

2.06.

2.07.

2.08.

2.09.

3 of 21 8717-ID

The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.

The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to the
Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread: provided, however, that the
interest payable shall in no event be less than zero percent (0%) per annum; and provided
furthermore that, upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be
determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid
when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable
by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the General
Conditions.

The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

(a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the terms
of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (1) a change of the Loan
Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or
unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis
applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all or any portion
of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate
based on a Reference Rate and the Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed
Reference Rate and the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (111) the setting of
limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an
Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.

(b) Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 1s accepted by
the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in the General Conditions, and
shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article [V of the General
Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.

(a) If on any given day, the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit (as said
terms are defined in sub-paragraphs (b)(11) and (b)(iu1) of this Section), the Borrower
shall pay to the Bank a surcharge at the rate of one half of one percent (0.5%) per
annum of the Allocated Excess Exposure Amount (as defined in sub-paragraph (b)(1)
of this Section) for each said day (“Exposure Surcharge’’). The Exposure Surcharge (if
any) shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date.

(b) For purposes of this Section the following terms have the meanings set forth below:
3.01.

3.02.

4.01.

4.02.

5.01.

(1)

(11)

(111)

4 of 21 8717-ID

“Allocated Excess Exposure Amount” means for each day during which the
Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit, the product of: (A) the
total amount of said excess; and (B) the ratio of all (or, if the Bank so
determines, a portion) of the Loan to the aggregate amount of all (or the
equivalent portions) of the loans made by the Bank to the Borrower and to other
borrowers guaranteed by the Borrower that are also subject to an exposure

surcharge, as said excess and ratio are reasonably determined from time to time
by the Bank.

“Standard Exposure Limit” means the standard limit on the Bank’s financial
exposure to the Borrower which, if exceeded, would subject the Loan to the
Exposure Surcharge, as determined from time to time by the Bank.

“Total Exposure” means for any given day, the Bank’s total financial exposure

to the Borrower, as reasonably determined by the Bank.

ARTICLE II — PROJECT

The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall carry out the Project through the Ministry of Public Works and Housing in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.

Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as the
Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the Project is
carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:

(a)

(b)

The Borrower has: (1) adopted the Project Operations Manual in the form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank; and (11) established the Project Management Committee and
all of the Project Implementation Units.

The Borrower has adopted the operational and eligibility guidelines for BP2BT in the

form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement.

ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance.
5 of 21 8717-ID

5.02. The Borrower’s Address is:

Directorate General of Budget Financing and Risk Management
Ministry of Finance

Gedung Frans Seda

Jl. DR. Wahidin Raya No. 1

Jakarta 10710 — Indonesia

Facsimile: +62-21-381-2859

5.03. The Bank’s Address is:

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America

Facsumile: 1-202-477-6391

AGREED at Jakarta, Indonesia, as of the day and year first above written.

REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
—.
By —
Authorized Representative ¢

Title, 2G OF BUDEET FINANCIAL AND
Risk MAN AZEMENT

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

 
6 of 21 8717-ID

SCHEDULE I!

Project Description

The objective of the Project is to improve access to affordable housing for Lower Income

Households.

Part 1.

(a)

(b)

Part 2.

(a)

(b)

(c)

The Project consists of the following parts:

Mortgage-Linked Down Payment Assistance

Mortgage-Linked Down Payment Assistance (BP2BT). Provision of mortgage-linked down
payment assistance for Lower Income Households, which are first time home-owners, through
Participating Lending Institutions, for the purchase or construction of a residential property.

Technical Assistance for Mortgage-Linked Down Payment Assistance. Provision of technical
assistance for: (1) developing and strengthening BP2BT management, administrative and
information technology systems and capacities; (11) supporting BP2BT operations and the
development of a rigorous monitoring and evaluation methodology and system, including a
baseline study; (111) developing consumer financial literacy around BP2BT; (iv) developing a
BP2BT public information campaign; and (v) developing and strengthening the lending
capacity to non-fixed income segment of Participating Lending Institutions.

Home Improvement Assistance

Home Improvement Assistance (BSPS). Provision of home improvement or reconstruction
assistance to Lower Income households.

BSPS Management and Operations. Provision of support for the management and operations
of BSPS.

BSPS Program Development. Provision of technical assistance, advisory services and training
to strengthen BSPS management, operations and monitoring, including: (i) the development of
a SMIS to integrate all data related to housing provision programs at the national and local
levels into a single database; (11) the provision of support for the management of facilitators;
(111) the establishment and implementation of a comprehensive complaint handling system; (1v)
the development of a rigorous monitoring and evaluation methodology and system, including
a baseline study; and (v) the development of a comprehensive impact assessment and policy
for BSPS.
7 of 21 8717-ID

Part 3. Technical Assistance for Housing Policy Reform

(a)

(b)

Expanding Access to Housing Finance. Provision of technical assistance to: (i) support policy
and regulatory reform; (ii) improve governance in order to strengthen the primary and
secondary mortgage markets; and (111) improve the enabling environment for housing finance
and housing information system.

Addressing Public and Low Income Housing Provision Constraints. Provision of technical
assistance to support policy reform, improve governance and enhance capacity of stakeholders
in addressing constraints to the provision of affordable housing.
Section I.

A.

1.

8 of 21 8717-ID

SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Implementation Arrangements

Institutional and Implementation Arrangements

The Borrower shall:

(a)

(b)

(c)

ensure that the Project is implemented subject to the overall guidance and oversight of
the Steering Committee, chaired by BAPPENAS and including, inter alia,
representatives from the Ministry of Public Works and Housing, the Ministry of Home
Affairs, the Ministry of Agrarian Affairs and Spatial Planning, the Ministry of Finance
and the Central Bureau of Statistics:

maintain, until completion of the Project: (1) the Project Management Committee,
established under the Ministry of Public Works and Housing, to be responsible for the
management, implementation, monitoring and reporting of the Project; and (ii) two
Project Implementation Units, established under the Ministry of Public Works and
Housing, to be responsible for day-to-day implementation of the Project, including
necessary arrangements with the Ministry of Home Affairs for the implementation of
capacity building for local governments under Part 3(b) of the Project, each with a
mandate, composition and terms of reference as set out in the Project Operations
Manual and acceptable to the Bank; and

ensure that the Project Management Committee and each of the Project Implementation
Unit is provided at all times with adequate funds and other resources and staffed by
qualified personnel in adequate numbers as shall be necessary to accomplish the
objective of the Project.

To facilitate the carrying out of Part l(a) of the Project, the Borrower shall enter into
agreement(s) with Participating Lending Institution(s) under the terms and conditions approved
by the Bank.

To facilitate the carrying out of Part 2(a) of the Project, the Borrower shall enter into
agreement(s) with Distribution Bank(s) under the terms and conditions approved by the Bank.

The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the agreements referred to in paragraphs 2 and 3
of this Section in such manner as to protect the interest of the Borrower and the Bank and to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any such agreement(s) or any of their provisions.
9 of 21 8717-ID

The Borrower shall:

(a) adopt and implement the Project in accordance with, the Project Operations Manual,
acceptable to the Bank, which shall include the description of: (i) institutional and
implementation arrangements; (ii) procurement procedures and standard procurement
documentation; (111) reporting requirements, financial management and audit
procedures; (iv) criteria for Eligible Expenditures; (v) the Project performance
indicators; (vi) arrangements and procedures for the environmental and social
safeguard management, including the Environmental and Social Management
Framework; and (vii) monitoring and evaluation arrangements; and

(b) not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive any provisions of the Project Operations
Manual without the prior written agreement of the Borrower and the Bank.

In the event of any conflict between the provisions of the Project Operations Manual and those
of this Agreement, the latter shall prevail.

No later than December 31, 2017, the Borrower shall revise the BSPS guidelines to reflect the
requirements in the Operations Manual.

Safeguards

The Borrower shall carry out the Project and ensure that each Project Implementation Unit
shall carry out Project activities in accordance with the provisions of the Environmental and
Social Management Framework, which shall include the Environmental Management
Framework, Resettlement Policy Framework and the Indigenous Peoples Planning
Framework, and where applicable: (a) prepare and ensure that an Environmental Management
Plan, a Land Acquisition and Resettlement Action Plan or an Indigenous Peoples Plan for each
activity 1s fully consistent with this Agreement and the Environmental and Social Management
Framework; (b) furnish such plan to the Bank for written no-objection prior to carrying out the
activity; and (c) thereafter implement the activity or cause the activity to be implemented in
accordance with such plan(s).

The Borrower shall ensure that the terms of reference for any consultancies related to studies,
technical assistance and/or capacity building under this Agreement shall, inter alia, duly
incorporate the requirements of the World Bank’s Safeguards Policies then in force, as applied
to the advice conveyed through such studies, technical assistance and/or capacity building
activities.

Without limitation to paragraph | above, in carrying out activities, the Borrower shall:
(a) take all necessary actions to avoid or minimize to the extent possible any involuntary

relocation of persons, or their loss of shelter, assets, or access to assets, or loss of
income sources or means of livelihood, temporarily or permanently; and
10 of 21 8717-ID

(b) in the event that a Project activity gives rise to Displaced Persons, prior to the
commencement of such activity, cause to be prepared, a Land Acquisition and
Resettlement Action Plan, acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with the guidelines,
requirements and procedures set forth in the Environmental and Social Management
Framework, and thereafter implement or cause to be implemented in a timely manner
said Land Acquisition and Resettlement Action Plan as approved by the Bank.

The Borrower shall, and shall cause each Project Implementation Unit to, ensure that all land
acquisition required for the purposes of carrying out the Project are financed exclusively out
of its own resources, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the resources needed for these
purposes, including: (a) all land acquisition required for the purposes of carrying out the
Project; (b) resettlement and rehabilitation payments to Displaced Persons; and (c) all other
costs associated with environmental and/or social mitigation measures set forth in the
Safeguard Instruments.

Where Indigenous Peoples are present in, or have a collective attachment to, the area of a
Project activity, the Borrower shall apply, and shall ensure that each Project Implementation
Unit shall apply, the Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework to the implementation of a
Project activity, including:

(a) avoiding, and, if not possible, minimizing cultural, social and economic adverse effects
on Indigenous Peoples caused or likely to be caused by the Project;

(b) through a process of free, prior, and informed consultation and participation, involving
concerned Indigenous Peoples in the design and implementation of Project activities
so as to ensure that there is broad community support for Project activities and that the
benefits received by the Indigenous Peoples under the Project are in harmony with their
economic, social and cultural preferences and protect their customary user rights; and

(c) preparing an Indigenous Peoples Plan based on the foregoing consultations and furnish
such Indigenous Peoples Plan to the Bank for written no-objection prior to carrying out
a Project activity and thereafter implement the Project activity in accordance with such
plan.

The Borrower shall:

(a) not amend, revise or waive, not allow to be amended, revised or waived, the provisions
of the Safeguard Instruments or any provision of any one thereof, without the prior
written agreement of the Bank; and

(b) maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate, in
accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, the implementation of the
Safeguard Instruments.

Without limitation to the provisions of Section II.A.1 of this Schedule 2, the Borrower shall
regularly collect, compile, and submit to the Bank, as part of the Project Reports, information
on the status of compliance with the Safeguard Instruments, giving details of: (a) measures
taken in furtherance of the Safeguard Instruments; (b) conditions, if any, which interfere or
threaten to interfere with the smooth implementation of the Safeguard Instruments; and (c)
remedial measures taken or required to be taken to address such conditions.
11 of 21 8717-ID
In the event of a conflict between the provisions of any of the Safeguard Instruments and those
of this Agreement, the latter shall govern.
Anti-Corruption

The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.

Section IT. Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

Project Reports

The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project
Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on
the basis of the indicators set forth in the Project Operations Manual. Each Project Report shall
cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than
forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such report.

Not later than December 31, 2018, the Borrower shall, in conjunction with the Bank, carry out
a mid-term review of the Project (“Mid-term Review”’), covering the progress achieved in the
implementation of the Project. To this end, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank
not less than three (3) months prior to the beginning of the Mid-term Review, a report
integrating the results of the Project’s monitoring and evaluation activities, on the progress
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of such report,
and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project
and the achievement of the objective of the Project during the period following such date.
Following the Mid-term Review, the Borrower shall act promptly and diligently in order to
take, or cause to be taken, any corrective action deemed necessary by the Bank to remedy any
shortcoming noted in the carrying out of the Project in furtherance of the objective of the
Project.

Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits

The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions.

Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare and
furnish to the Bank, not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter,
interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank.

The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the provisions of
Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover
the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such
period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of such period.
12 of 21 8717-ID

Section III. Procurement

General

Goods and Non-consulting Services. All goods and non-consulting services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with
the provisions of this Section.

Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth
or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and with the provisions of this
Section.

Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to the
corresponding method described in Sections IJ and III of the Procurement Guidelines, or
Sections IT, III, ['V and V of the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.

Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-consulting Services

International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
goods and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
International Competitive Bidding.

Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-consulting Services. The following
methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used for procurement of goods
and non-consulting services for those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) National
Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional provisions set forth in the Annex to this
Schedule; (b) Shopping; (c) Direct Contracting; and (d) Community Participation procedures
which have been found acceptable to the Bank.

Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services

Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality and
Cost-based Selection.

Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following methods, other
than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for procurement of consultants’ services
for those contracts which are specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) Least Cost Selection; (b)
Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications; (c) Single-source Selection of consulting
firms; (d) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for the
Selection of Individual Consultants; and (e) Single-source procedures for the Selection of
Individual Consultants.

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s Prior
Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.
13 of 21 8717-ID

Section IV. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. General

l. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions of
Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “Disbursement Guidelines for
Investment Project Financing” dated February 2017, as revised from time to time by the Bank
and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.

2. The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each
Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each
Category.

Category Amount of the Loan Percentage of
Allocated Expenditures to be
(expressed in USD) financed
(inclusive of Taxes)

(1) Mortgage-Linked Down Payment 205,000,000 100%
Assistance under Part |(a) of the Project

(2) Home Improvement Assistance 175,000,000 100%
under Part 2(a) of the Project

(3) Goods, non-consulting services, 70,000,000 100%
consultants’ services and Training under
Parts 1(b), 2(b), 2(c) and 3 of the Project

 

TOTAL AMOUNT 450,000,000 Be

B. Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

1. Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made for
payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.

2. The Closing Date is March 31, 2021.
14 of 21 8717-ID

ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
National Competitive Bidding: Modifications to Procedures

The procedures applicable to the procurement of goods, works, and non-consulting services under
contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding shall be those of the Pelelangan Umum
(Public Tendering) and Pemilihan Langsung / Pelelangan Sederhana (Simplified Tendering) methods
as set forth in the Borrower’s Presidential Regulation No. 54/2010 and its subsequent amendments as
of January 16, 2015, with the modifications set out below in order to ensure economy, efficiency,
transparency, and broad consistency with the provisions of Section I of the Procurement Guidelines,
pursuant to paragraph 3.3 of said Guidelines. The Pemilihan Langsung / Pelelangan Sederhana
method shall apply to such procurement up to the financial thresholds specified in said Regulation. In
the event of a conflict between the Borrower’s procedures and these modifications, the latter shall
govern.

1. Procuring entities shall use the appropriate standard bidding documents acceptable to the Borrower
and the Bank. The provisions of Section 1.16 (Fraud and Corruption) of the Procurement
Guidelines shall apply, and each bidding document and contract financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan shall include provisions on matters pertaining to fraud and corruption as defined in
paragraph 1.16(a) of said Guidelines and the contract provisions set out in paragraph 1.16(e) of
said Guidelines.

2. Foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding. Ifa registration process 1s required, a foreign
firm determined to be the lowest evaluated responsive bidder shall be given reasonable time for
registration. Foreign bidders shall not be required to form a joint venture or sub-contract part of
the supply of goods, non-consulting services, and works as a condition for submitting bids or the
award of the contract. Bidding documents shall be made available to all international bidders.

3. No preference of any kind shall be given to any bidders.

4. Under the Pelelangan Umum method, bidders shall be allowed at least twenty-one (21) days from
the date of the invitation to bid or the date of availability of bidding documents, whichever ts later,
to prepare and submit bids; this period shall be ten (10) days under the Pemilihan Langsung /
Pelelangan Sederhana method.

5. Bids invited under the Pelelangan Umum method shall be submitted in one (1) envelope and
evaluated using post-qualification.

6. No bidder shall be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with the owner’s estimate and
budget ceiling without the Bank’s prior written concurrence.

7. Bid security, if it is required by the bidding documents, at the bidder’s option, shall be in the form
of a letter of credit or guarantee from a reputable bank or other reputable financial institution and
shall without exception follow the form provided for this purpose in the bidding documents.

8. All bids shall not be rejected and new bids solicited without the Bank’s prior written concurrence.

9. Government-owned enterprises in Indonesia shall be eligible to participate provided that they
comply with paragraph 1.10(b) of the Procurement Guidelines.
15 of 21 8717-ID

SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage of
the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date (“Installment
Share”). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal
Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance
as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment
Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in
paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.

Principal Payment Date Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)

   
   
   
  
  
   
  
  
   

 
  
  
  

September 15, 2024
March 15, 2025
September 15, 2025

If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment
Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment
Date shall be determined as follows:

March 15, 2026

 

(a) To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance as of
such date in accordance with paragraph | of this Schedule.
16 of 21 8717-ID

(b) Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on each
Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts determined
by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the
numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph
| of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (‘Original Installment Share”) and
the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original Installment Shares for
Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, such amounts repayable to be
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this
Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.

(a) Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any Principal
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on
the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be
repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal
Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.

(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any time
the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on or after
the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no
longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved Currency,
the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any Principal Payment
Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying
such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i)
the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by
the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank
so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of
the Screen Rate.

If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions
of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so
as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
17 of 21 8717-ID

APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

1.

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and
Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”, dated October
15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.

“Assistance” or “Bantuan Pemerintah” means the Borrower's support, other than social
support (bantuan sosial), which shall be provided in accordance with the Minister of Finance
regulation No. 168 of 2015, as amended.

“BAPPENAS” or “Badan Perencanaan Pembangunan Nasional’ means the national
development planning agency or ministry of the Borrower, or any successor thereto.

“BP2BT” or “Bantuan Pembiayaan Perumahan Berbasis Tabungan” means the Borrower’s
mortgage-linked down payment assistance program, which shall be established and operating
in accordance with the operational and eligibility guidelines for BP2BT, or any successor
thereto.

“BSPS” or “Bantuan Stimulan Perumahan Swadaya” means the Borrower’s home
improvement assistance program, which is established and operating in accordance with the
Minister of Public Works and Housing regulation No. 13 of 2016, or any successor thereto.

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.

“Central Bureau of Statistics” or “Badan Pusat Statistik’ means the Borrower’s entity
responsible for statistics and established pursuant to the Borrower’s law no. 16 of 2007.

“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers” dated January
2011 (revised July 2014).

“Displaced Person” means a person who, on account of the execution of the Project, has
experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts caused by: (a) the
involuntary taking of land resulting in: (1) relocation or loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets or
access to assets; or (111) loss of income sources or means of livelihood, whether or not such
person must move to another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally
designated parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such
person, and “Displaced Persons” means, collectively, all such Displaced Persons.
“Distribution Bank” means a bank meeting the eligibility requirements set out in the Project
Operations Manual and selected by the working unit (satan kerja) of a Project Implementation
Unit to distribute Home Improvement Assistance, and “Distribution Banks” means,
collectively, all such banks.
11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

17.

18 of 21 8717-ID

“Environmental and Social Management Framework” means the environmental and social
safeguards management framework dated November 18, 2016 and disclosed through the
Bank’s infoshop on December 9, 2016, acceptable to the Bank, as the same may be updated
from time to time in agreement with the Bank, such framework incorporating among others,
the Environmental Management Framework, the Resettlement Policy Framework and the
Indigenous Peoples Framework.

“Environmental Management Framework” means the Borrower’s environmental management
framework acceptable to the Bank and included in the Environmental and Social Management
Framework, setting out the agreed measures to maximize the benefits of the Project, eliminate
or offset any adverse environmental impacts or reduce such impacts to acceptable levels.

“Environmental Management Plan” means each plan for a Project activity, meeting the
requirements of the Environmental and Social Management Framework and acceptable to the
Bank, giving details of the agreed actions and policies designed to maximize the benefits of a
Project activity, eliminate or offset any adverse environmental impacts or reduce such impacts
to acceptable levels, along with the procedural and institutional measures needed to implement
such actions and policies.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for Loans”, dated March 12, 2012, with the modifications set forth in
Section II of this Appendix.

“Home Improvement Assistance” means an Assistance, in the form of a payment for the
purchase of construction materials, to be made available by the Borrower out of the proceeds
of the Loan under Part 2(a) of the Project to a Lower Income Household through a Distribution
Bank.

‘Indigenous Peoples” means those social groups in the Borrower’s territory that have a distinct,
vulnerable, social and cultural identity, and that possess the following characteristics in varying
degrees: (a) self-identification as members of a distinct indigenous cultural group and
recognition of this identity by others; (b) collective attachment to geographically distinct
habitats or ancestral territories in the Project area and to the natural resources in these habitats
and territories; (c) customary cultural, economic, social, or political institutions that are
separate from those of the dominant society and culture; and (d) an indigenous language.

“Indigenous Peoples Plan” means each plan for a Project activity, meeting the requirements of
the Environmental and Social Management Framework and acceptable to the Bank, giving
details of the agreed actions and policies designed to: (a) involve Indigenous Peoples, through
a process of free, prior and informed consultation, in the design and implementation of the
Project in locations in which such people reside or make their living; (b) ensure that Indigenous
Peoples receive culturally appropriate social and economic benefits; and (c) when potential
adverse effects on Indigenous Peoples are identified, those adverse effects are avoided,
minimized, mitigated, or compensated for, in each case in a manner acceptable to the Bank,
along with the procedural and institutional measures needed to implement such actions and
policies.
18.

19.

20.

21.

22.

23.

24.

25.

26.

27.

28.

19 of 21 8717-ID

“Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework” means the Borrower’s indigenous peoples
planning framework acceptable to the Bank and included in the Environmental and Social
Management Framework, setting out the agreed measures to: (a) involve Indigenous Peoples,
through a process of free, prior and informed consultation, in the design and implementation
of the Project in locations in which such people reside or make their living; (b) ensure that
Indigenous Peoples receive culturally appropriate social and economic benefits; and (c) when
potential adverse effects on Indigenous Peoples are identified, those adverse effects are
avoided, minimized, mitigated, or compensated for, In each case in a manner acceptable to the
Bank.

“Land Acquisition and Resettlement Action Plan” means each plan for a Project activity,
meeting the requirements of the Environmental and Social Management Framework and
acceptable to the Bank, giving details of the agreed provisions for compensation, rehabilitation
and resettlement assistance to Displaced Persons under the Project, along with the procedural
and institutional measures needed to implement such actions and policies.

“Lower Income Household” means a household with a gross salaried and/or non-salaried
income in the bottom 60 percent of national income distribution, and “Lower Income
Households” means, collectively, all such households.

‘Ministry of Finance” means the Borrower’s ministry responsible for finance, or any successor
thereto.

‘Ministry of Public Works and Housing” means the Borrower’s ministry responsible for public
works and housing, or any successor thereto.

“Ministry of Agrarian Affairs and Spatial Planning’ means the Borrower’s ministry
responsible for agrarian/land affairs, or any successor thereto.

‘Ministry of Home Affairs” means the Borrower’s ministry responsible for home affairs, or
any successor thereto.

‘“Mortgage-Linked Down Payment Assistance” means an Assistance for Lower Income
Households, in the form of down payment supplement for the purchase or construction of a
residential property, to be made available by the Borrower out of the proceeds of the Loan
under Part 1(a) of the Project (through a Participating Lending Institution).

‘Participating Lending Institution” means a participating lending institution meeting the
eligibility requirements set out in the Project Operations Manual and selected by the working
unit (satuan kerja) of a Project Implementation Unit to provide Mortgage-Linked Down
Payment Assistance, and ‘Participating Lending Institutions” means, collectively, all such
institutions.

‘‘Perumnas” means a state-owned enterprise incorporated and operating in accordance with the
Borrower’s Government Regulation No. 83 of 2015, or any successor thereto.

‘Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-
consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers” dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).
29.

30.

31.

32.

33.

34.

35.

36.

38.

20 of 21 8717-ID

‘Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, dated January 31,
2017 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of
the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with
the provisions of said paragraphs.

“Project Implementation Unit” means the unit to be established in accordance with paragraph
1(b)(11) of Section I.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and ‘Project Implementation Units”
means, collectively, all such units.

“Project Management Committee” means the committee to be established in accordance with
paragraph 1(b)(1) of Section I.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Project Operations Manual” means the Project operations manual to be adopted by the
Borrower in accordance with the Minister of Public Works and Housing Regulation No. 13 of
2016 and the operational and eligibility guidelines for BP2BT and referred to in paragraph 4
of Section I.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time
in agreement with the Bank, and such term includes any schedules to the Project Operations
Manual.

“Resettlement Policy Framework” means the Borrower's resettlement policy framework
acceptable to the Bank and included in the Environmental and Social Management Framework,
setting out the agreed measures and actions to be taken during the implementation of the Project
for the provision of compensation, rehabilitation and resettlement assistance to Displaced
Persons.

“Safeguard Instrument” means, collectively, the Environmental and Social Management
Framework, the Environmental Management Framework, the Environmental Management
Plan(s), the Indigenous Peoples Framework, the Indigenous Peoples Plan(s), the Resettlement
Policy Framework and the Land Acquisition and Resettlement Action Plan(s).

“SMIS” means Swadaya Management Information System, an information management
system to be developed under Part 2(c)(1) of the Project.

‘Steering Committee” means the committee to be established in accordance with paragraph
(a) of Section I.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Training” means the reasonable costs of expenditure incurred by the Borrower in facilitating
and conducting domestic and overseas training and workshop activities for the purpose of the
Project, including costs of training or workshop materials; honoraria; interpretation and
translation; equipment and venue rental; lunches: per diem; accommodation; and transportation
for those attending the training or workshop; but excluding salary and salary supplements of
the Borrower’s civil servants.

‘World Bank’s Safeguards Policies’ means the World Bank’s operational policies and
procedures set forth in the World Bank’s Operational Manual under OP/BPs 4.01, 4.04, 4.09,
4.10, 4.11, 4.12, 4.36, 4.37, 7.50 and 7.60 published at www.worldbank.org/opmanual.
21 of 21 8717-ID

Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:

l. In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections. Section names and Section numbers are
modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.

2. Section 3.01. (Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
“Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge

(a) The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at the rate
specified in the Loan Agreement (the “Front-end Fee’).

(b) The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the Unwithdrawn Loan
Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the “Commitment Charge”). The
Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the Loan Agreement
to the respective dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan
Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on
each Payment Date.”

3. In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and paragraphs are
modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in paragraph 2 above.

4. The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following definition of
“Commitment Charge”, and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs accordingly:

“19. “Commitment Charge” means the commitment charge specified in the Loan
Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b).”
