Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

LOAN NUMBER 8810-AR

Loan Agreement

(Northwestern Road Development Corridor Project)

between
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between Argentine Republic (“Borrower”)

and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).
The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:

1.01.

1.02.

2.01.

2.02.

2.03.

2.04.

2.05.

2.06.

2.07.

3.01.

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to and form
part of this Agreement.

Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.

ARTICLE II — LOAN

The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of three hundred million Dollars,
(USD 300,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1
to this Agreement (“Project”).

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section III of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower’s Representative for purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this Section is its Minister of Treasury
or MoH’s Undersecretary of International Financial Relations.

The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.

The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.

The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Variable Spread or such rate as may apply
following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General Conditions.

The Payment Dates are January | and July 1 in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.

ARTICLE II — PROJECT

The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower, through MoT, shall cause DNV, to carry out the Project, with the assistance of
4.01.

4.02.

5.01.

5.02.

6.01.

6.02.

SoP for Part 2 (a) of the Project, in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK

The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that DNV shall
have failed to comply with any of its obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement.

The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of, namely, that the event specified in
Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of 60 days after notice
of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower.

ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that the
Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower, through MoH and
MoT, and the DNV.

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and twenty (120) days after the
Signature Date.

ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

Except as provided in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower’s Representative is
its Minister of Treasury.

For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) the Borrower’s address is:

Ministry of Treasury

Hipolito Yrigoyen 250

C1086AAB, Buenos Aires

Argentina

and

(b) the Borrower’s Electronic Address is:

Telex: Facsimile: E-mail:
121942-AR (5411) 4349-8815 privada@mfin.gob.ar
“3.

6.03. For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Bank’s address is:

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America; and

(b) the Bank’s Electronic Address is:

Telex: Facsimile: E-mail:
248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391 jhentschel@worldbank.org
64145(MCI)

AGREED as of the Signature Date.

ARGENTINE REPUBLIC

By

    

uthorized Representative

Name: Micolas Dujavac
Title: Minister of Jveasucy

Date: Joly a, 2018

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By

    

Authorized Representative

Name: j esko Hentschel
Title: Cou atry Director
pate: July 23, 201g
SCHEDULE 1

Project Description

The objectives of the Project are to improve connectivity and road safety along Targeted
Road Sections of the Northwestern Corridor and to support corridor development in the Northwest
of Argentina.

The Project, consists of the following parts:
Part 1: Road Infrastructure

Carrying out of infrastructure works along Targeted Road Sections of the NW Corridor of
approximately 93.1 kilometers to: (a) expand the capacity from two lanes to a four-lane access
controlled expressway with grade-separated intersections and returns; and (b) carry out
rehabilitation works.

Part 2: Infrastructure for Development Corridor Management

Carrying out of works and provision of technical assistance to improve the NW Corridor’s
management and contribute to roadside service and logistics development along the NW Corridor,
through:

(a) the carrying out of feasibility studies related to logistics, multimodality and
roadside service facilities, including: (i) the carrying out of environmental impact
assessments for prioritized intermodal logistics centers and preparation of related
environmental management plans; (ii) the carrying out of logistics development
studies and diagnostics to assess needs for the NW Corridor’s development; and
(iii) the carrying out of an assessment of trucking industry market failures and
provision of technical assistance to improve the applicable regulatory framework.

(b) (i) carrying out of infrastructure works related to the relocation of the Gendarmeria
Nacional post in Pampa Blanca, to improve existing facilities and access roads;
and (ii) carrying out of road safety mitigation measures, including the carrying out
of road safety awareness campaigns aimed at vulnerable corridor users such as
pedestrians, motorcyclists, and cyclists.

(c) improvement of existing infrastructure and provision of technological equipment
for the DNV weight control station in Barro Negro to perform static and dynamic
weight control of freight trucks.

(d) improvement of infrastructure facilities of the fiscal control station of the Province
of Jujuy’s Revenue Directorate and the General Directorate of Customs Control
located in Pampa Blanca.
Part 3: Project Management

Provision of support for Project management and implementation, including, inter alia: (a) the
installation of wildlife crossings; (b) the preparation of draft environmental management plans for
the operation and maintenance phase of the works under Part 1 of the Project; (c) the
implementation of a monitoring plan to assess the effectiveness of the wildlife crossings mentioned
in (a) herein; (d) the carrying out of specialized technical, environmental and social supervision of
civil works; (e) the provision of administrative and operational support to DNV for the
administration, monitoring, coordination, and supervision of the Project; (f) the carrying out of an
assessment of the impact of climate change on intensity-duration-frequency rainfall curve along
the NW Corridor; (g) the design of climate resilient solutions ranging from spatial planning to post-
disaster risk and recovery support to address the growing climate risks which could impact the
Borrower’s entire transport value chain; (h) the carrying out of studies to prepare public-private
partnership bidding documents for the NW Corridor, including a strategic environmental and social
assessment; (i) the carrying out of activities included in the IPP to reduce the gender gap; (j) the
implementation of a road user and citizen engagement platform to close citizens’ feedback loop;
and (k) the carrying out of technical supervision of works by junior engineers from local
universities.
SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Section I. Implementation Arrangements

A.

l.

Institutional Arrangements.

(a) Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and for
purposes of carrying the Project, the Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan
available to DNV under a subsidiary agreement (the Subsidiary Agreement) to be
entered into between the Borrower, through MoH and MoT, and DNV, under terms
and conditions acceptable to the Bank, including, inter alia:

(i) the obligation of the Borrower: (A) to promptly disburse to DNV the
proceeds of the Loan in a manner acceptable to the Bank; and (B) the right
of the Borrower, through MoT, to take remedial actions against DNV in
case DNV shall have failed to comply with any of its obligations under the
Subsidiary Agreement; and

(ii) the obligation of DNV: (A) to carry out the Project in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule and Section V of the General Conditions; (B)
to ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions
of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines; (C) to not assign, amend, terminate,
abrogate, repeal, waive or fail to enforce the Subsidiary Agreement or any
provision thereof, unless previously agreed with the Bank; and (D) to take
or permit to be taken all action to enable the Borrower to comply with its
obligations set forth in this Agreement.

(a) The Borrower, through MoH and MoT, shall exercise its rights and carry out its
obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan;
and (b) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, through MoH and
MoT, shall not assign, amend, abrogate, terminate, waive or fail to enforce the
Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.

The Borrower, through MoT, shall cause DNV to have at all times during Project
implementation, adequate professional staff (with expertise in engineering, administrative,
procurement, environmental, social and financial management matters) and administrative
staff, assigned to the implementation of the Project, all with qualifications and experience
acceptable to the Bank.

The Borrower, through SoP, shall provide technical support to DNV in the carrying out of
the activities under Part 2 (a) of the Project, as set forth in the Operational Manual.
Operational Manual.

Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower,
through MoT, shall cause DNV to carry out of the Project in accordance with the provisions
of a manual (the Operational Manual), acceptable to the Bank, said manual to include, inter
alia: (a) the road sections identified under Parts 1 and 2 (b), (c) and (d) of the Project; (b)
the Project’s chart of accounts and internal controls; (c) the roles and responsibilities of
SoP to provide technical support under Part 2 (a) of the Project; (d) the terms of reference
for the carrying out of the Project audits; (e) the Project monitoring indicators; (f) the
Project disbursement procedures; (g) the Safeguard Documents; (h) the Project’s
administrative and procurement procedures; (i) the terms of reference and qualifications of
DNV’s environmental and social specialists assigned to the implementation of the Project;
and (j) the standard environmental provisions to be included in the bidding documents for
investments to be carried out under the Project.

In case of any conflict between the terms of the Operational Manual and this Agreement,
the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.

Safeguards.

The Borrower, through MoT, shall cause DNV to carry out the Project in accordance to the
provisions of the: (a) Environmental Impact Assessments; (b) the Abbreviated
Resettlement Action Plans; and (c) the IPP.

The Borrower, through MoT, shall cause DNV to ensure that the terms of reference for any
consultancy in respect of any Project activity under Parts 2 (a) and 3 of the Project shall be
satisfactory to the Bank following its review thereof and, to that end, such terms of
reference shall duly incorporate the requirements of the Bank Safeguards Policies then in
force, as applied to the advice conveyed through such technical assistance.

Section II. Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

The Borrower, through MoT, shall cause DNV to furnish to the Bank each Project Report
not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar semester, covering the
calendar semester.

Section III. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

A.

General.

Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and in
accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the Borrower may
withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to: (a) finance Eligible Expenditures; and (b) pay each
Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar premium; in the amount allocated and, if
applicable, up to the percentage set forth against each Category of the following table:
-8-

      
     
            
  

Category Amount of the Loan | Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated to be financed
expressed in USD inclusive of Taxes
297,050,000 100%
Agreement in accordance with
TOTAL AMOUNT 300,000,000

2,200,000 100%
Section 2.07 (b) of the General
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.

     
 
  

(1) Works under Parts | and 2
(b), (c) and (d) of the Project

  
   
     
 
   
 
 
 

(2) Goods, non-consulting
services, consulting services,
Operating Costs and Training
under Part 2 of the Project

  

(3) Front-end Fee

Amount payable pursuant to
750,000
Conditions

Section 2.03 of — this
(4) Interest Rate Cap or Amount due pursuant to
Interest Rate Collar premium Section 4.05 (c) of the General
Conditions

 
   
 
   
 
 

    

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A above, no withdrawal shall be made for payments
made prior to the Signature Date, except that withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not
to exceed USD 60,000,000 may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or
after November 1, 2017 (but in no case before twelve months before the Signature Date)
for Eligible Expenditures.

The Closing Date is June 30, 2023.
SCHEDULE 3
Commitment-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage of the
total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date (“Installment Share”).

Level Principal Repayments

Principal Payment Date Installment Share

On each January | and July 1
Beginning January 1, 2025
through July 1, 2048 2.04%

On January 1, 2049 2.08%

  
  
 

 

   
-10-

APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

13

"Abbreviated Resettlement Plans" means the Borrower's two resettlement plans for the
works under Parts 1 and 2 of the Project, dated September 25, 2017 and October 30, 2017,
respectively, acceptable to the Bank and published by the Borrower on November 6, 2017
and in the Bank's external website on November 6, 2017, which include, inter alia: (a) the
objectives of said plans and the protocols and procedures for the provision of resettlement
assistance in connection with the involvement of Resettlement under the Project; and (b)
the applicable legal and institutional framework governing the implementation of said
plans; as such plans may be revised, updated or supplemented, from time to time, with the
Bank’s prior written approval.

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and Corruption
in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006
and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.

“Bank’s Safeguards Policies” means the Bank’s operational policies and procedures, set
forth in the Bank’s operational manual and identified as OP/BP 4.01, 4.04, 4.09, 4.10, 4.11,
4.12, 4.36 and 4.37, as said manual is published under www. WorldBank.org/opmanual.

“Barro Negro” means a town located in the Province of Jujuy.

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section III.A of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.

“DNV” means the Borrower’s Direccién Nacional de Vialidad (National Roads
Directorate), a decentralized legal entity operating under the jurisdiction of the MoT (as
defined below), established by the Borrower’s Decree-Law No. 505/58, dated January 16,
1958, as said Decree-Law has been amended to the date of this Agreement, and the Project
Implementing Entity for purposes of the General Conditions.

“Environmental Impact Assessments” means the following Borrower’s environmental
assessments, including their respective environmental management plans, all acceptable to
the Bank, which describe the Borrower’s actions to be undertaken, or cause to be
undertaken, in order to address any adverse environmental impact resulting from the
carrying out of the works under Parts 1 and 2 of the Project, as said documents may be
amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank: (a) Estudio de Impacto
Ambiental para el Grupo I de Obras, dated September 25, 2017; (b) Estudio de Impacto
Ambiental para el Grupo 2 de Obras, dated October 30, 2017; and (c) Estudio de Impacto
Ambiental para el Grupo 3 de Obras, dated October 30, 2017; published by the Borrower
on November 6, 2017 and in the Bank’s external website on November 6, 2017; as such
assessments and related environmental management plans may be revised, updated or
supplemented, from time to time, with the Bank’s prior written approval.
10.

16.

Fe.

aie

“Gendarmeria Nacional” means the Borrower’s national gendarmerie, established
pursuant to the Borrower’s Law No. Law N° 19.349, dated November 25, 1971 and
published in the Borrower's Official Gazette on January 10, 1972.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project Financing”, dated July 14,
2017.

“Indigenous Peoples Plan” or “IPP” means Plan de Pueblos Indigenas, the Borrower’s plan
dated October 30, 2017, acceptable to the Bank, and disclosed by the Borrower on
November 6, 2017 and in the Bank’s external website on November 6, 2017, setting forth
the indigenous peoples policy actions applicable to the activities to be carried out under the
Project.

“MoH” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Treasury, or any successor thereto.
“MoT” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Transport, or any successor thereto.

“Northwestern Corridor” or “NW Corridor” means the road network comprised of the
Borrower’s national route No. 34, from Profesor Salvador Mazza in the Province of Salta
to Rosario in the Province of Santa Fe, and its access roads.

“North West of Argentina” means the Provinces of Jujuy, Salta, Santiago del Estero and
Tucuman.

“Operating Costs” means reasonable incremental recurrent expenditures that would not
have been incurred absent the Project, for Project administration costs (including office
rent), operation and maintenance of office equipment, banking fees (excluding any
payments related to the Borrower’s Bank Transactions Tax, pursuant to the Borrower’s
Law No. 25.413, dated March 24, 2001), non-durable goods and salaries of DNV staff
assigned to carry out responsibilities under the Project.

“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section I.B.1 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.

“Pampa Blanca” means a town located in the Province of Jujuy.
“Procurement Regulations” means, for purposes of paragraph 85 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the “World Bank Procurement Regulations for Borrowers under

Investment Project Financing”, dated July 1, 2016.

“Province” means a Borrower political subdivision, as per title Two of the Borrower’s 1994
Constitution.
20.

ah.

ahs

4a:

24.

23,

26.

at?

“Resettlement” means the impact of an involuntary taking of land under the Project, which
taking causes affected persons to have their: (a) standard of living adversely affected; or
(b) right, title or interest in any house, land (including premises, agricultural and grazing
land) or any other fixed or movable asset acquired or possessed, temporarily or
permanently; or (c) access to productive assets adversely affected, temporarily or
permanently; or (d) business, occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely
affected, temporarily or permanently.

“Safeguard Documents” means the Environmental Impact Assessments, the Indigenous
Peoples’ Plan and the Abbreviated Resettlement Action Plans.

“Signature Date” means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the Bank
signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to “the date of the Loan
Agreement” in the General Conditions.

“SoP” means MoT’s Secretary of Planning, or any successor thereto.

“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.A.1 of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.

“Targeted Road Sections” means the selected road sections within the NW Corridor,
including the Borrower’s national roads No. 34, No. 66 and No. 1V66, as defined in the
Operational Manual.

“Training” means expenditures (other than those for consulting services) incurred by DNV,
to finance reasonable transportation costs and per-diem of trainees and trainers, training
registration fees, and rental of training facilities and equipment.
