Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

LOAN NUMBER 8830-YF

Loan Agreement

(Additional Financing for Second Serbia Health Project)

between
REPUBLIC OF SERBIA
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between REPUBLIC OF SERBIA

(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (‘Bank’) for the purpose of providing additional financing for the project
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (‘Project’). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree

as follows:

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01. The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to and form
part of this Agreement.

1.02. Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.

ARTICLE IT — LOAN

2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of twenty-five million Euros
(EUR 25,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency
Conversion (“Loan’’), to assist in financing the Project.

2.02. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section III of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

2.03. The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.

2.04. The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.

2.05. The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Variable Spread or such rate as may apply
following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General Conditions.

2.06. The Payment Dates are February | and August | in each year.

2.07. The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.

ARTICLE II — PROJECT
3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the

Borrower shall carry out the Project through the Borrower’s Ministry of Health in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
4.01.

4.02.

ah.

5.02.

AND

ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following that the Project
Operations and Grant Manual has been updated by the Ministry of Health in a manner
acceptable to the Bank.

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date hundred and eighty (180) days after the Signature
Date.

ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

The Borrower’s Representative, who, inter alia, may agree to modification of the
provisions of this Agreement on behalf of the Borrower through exchange of letters (unless
otherwise determined by the Borrower and the Bank), is its Minister of Finance.

For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) the Borrower’s address is:

Ministry of Finance

20 Kneza Milosa St.

11000 Belgrade

Republic of Serbia; and

(b) the Borrower’s Electronic Address ts:

Facsimile: E-mail:
(381-11) 3618-961 kabinet@mfin.gov.rs

For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) the Bank’s address is:

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America; and

(b) the Bank’s Electronic Address is:
Telex: Facsimile: E-mail:

248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391 sndegwa @ worldbank.org
64145(MCI)
AGREED as of the Signature Date.

REPUBLIC OF SERBIA

BY Oe

Authorized Representative
Name: DUSAK Vutautc
Date: Moreh2t lp [oS

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

 
    

By

thorized Representative

Name: S40 phe ! dou
Covnteg Metrage’

Title: Cov
Date: Marth al, Q6IF
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description

The objective of the Project is to contribute to improving the efficiency and quality of the
public health system of the Republic of Serbia through the strengthening of: (i) health financing,
purchasing, and maintenance systems; and (ii) quality improvement systems and management of
selected priority non-communicable diseases.

The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1. Improvement of Health Financing
(a) Support Hospital Financing Reforms

Strengthen transparency of and incentives for efficiency of the Health Insurance Fund
financing for public hospitals through: (i) carrying out a phased implementation of a DRG payment
system, including conducting a DRG costing exercise and building awareness and capacity of
public hospitals’ staff for the implementation of said payment system; (ii) carrying out a gradual
shift of hospital acute care financing from inputs to DRGs; (iii) improving the information systems,
through upgrades to central systems, and software installation or upgrades, as the case may be, at
selected hospitals; (iv) supporting amendments to regulations and by-laws that give effect to the
hospital financing reforms; (v) providing technical advice on options to improve efficiency of
financing for non-acute care in hospitals and governance arrangements to strengthen management
in hospitals; (vi) providing technical support to integrate hospital level Clinical Pathways into the
E-health System for hospital information systems; (vii) defining admission criteria based on
European Appropriateness Evaluation Protocol and adapting it to the national level;
(viii) developing hospital matrix for performance monitoring and incentive for hospital staff; and
(ix) improving the regulatory framework to: (A) recognize and define performance and
expenditures; and (B) incorporate the DRG into the Health Insurance Fund’s and hospitals’
budgeting system.

(b) Strengthen Primary Health Care Financing

Improve the efficiency and quality of preventive and certain other primary care services
through: (i) strengthening the incentives for performance in the Health Insurance Fund health
provider payment mechanisms through refinement of performance criteria for variable payments
made to health workers; (ii) designing and piloting implementation of Quality Improvement Sub-
grants for improvement of quality of health care, including increased access to health care and
preventive services by vulnerable groups (such as Roma, the elderly, and the disabled);
(iii) strengthening implementation and monitoring capacity of primary health care financing
reforms through development of transition plans for capitation financing to Primary Health Care
Centers and development and strengthening of managerial capacity and skills for heads of Primary
Health Care Centers; (iv) developing proposals for amendments to regulations and by-laws that
give effect to the primary care financing reform; and (v) providing technical support to integrate
primary health care level Clinical Pathways into the E-Health System for primary health care
information systems.
(c) Develop a Health Care Network Optimization Plan

Provision of technical support to (i) develop a health care network optimization plan for
public health institutions; (ii) develop palliative care, outpatient care at hospitals and other
interventions that may be necessary towards efficient utilization of existing capacities; and
(iii) carry out advocacy activities.

Part 2. Improve Access to Quality Health Care
(a) Improve Access to Medicines

Develop and implement a centralized system for the procurement of pharmaceuticals,
medical supplies, diagnostic reagents and medical equipment through: (i) carrying out a
competitive tendering process for multi-source items and reference pricing for single-source items:
(ii) developing specific framework agreements to be entered by the Health Insurance Fund and
suppliers within the centralized procurement system; (ili) carrying out pilot testing of:
(A) e-prescription system and modules for Primary Health Care Centers, hospitals, Health
Insurance Fund, and pharmacies; (B) e-procurement system to support centralized procurement;
and (C) development and carrying out of Training of a unified information technology system for
monitoring in-market availability and dispensing of pharmaceuticals; (iv) developing proposals for
amendments to regulations and by-laws that give effect to health sector procurement reform; and
(v) provision of technical support to improve the E-Health System to support the rational use of
antibiotics.

(b) Strengthen Health Technology Assessment Capacity

Strengthen the Borrower’s capacity to carry out improved Health Technology Assessment
through (i) developing partnerships with relevant regional and international Health Technology
Assessment organizations; (ii) strengthening the capacity of the relevant institutions of the
Borrower, selected pursuant to the criteria set forth in the Project Operations and Grants Manual,
to carry out improved Health Technology Assessment for pharmaceuticals and medical devices;
(iii) developing proposals for strengthened institutional arrangements of the Borrower, including
through amendments to regulations and by-laws for improved Health Technology Assessment;
(iv) supporting the establishment of a Health Technology Assessment unit within an entity of the
Borrower to be selected by the Borrower and acceptable to the World Bank, based upon the
institutional arrangements developed under the preceding sub-section (iii); and (v) providing
technical assistance and Training to support the Borrower in: (A) performing Health Technology
Assessment and EBM situation analysis; (B) building and document international experiences;
(C) acquiring knowledge and developing expertise for local Health Technology Assessment
implementation; (D) defining institutionalization and institutional arrangements for Health
Technology Assessment; (E) establishing appropriate Health Technology Assessment process and
priority areas; (F) translating research results into recommendations for decision making; and
(G) building experience in strategic planning.

(c) Improve Medical Equipment Maintenance Systems
Support the improvement of the Ministry of Health maintenance system through:

(i) carrying out a preliminary assessment of the existing (A) system of distribution of medical
equipment; (B) procedures for medical equipment maintenance and repair management; (C) cost
and allocation of maintenance funds; and (D) procurement of spare parts and equipment
maintenance and repair services; and (11) on the basis of the outcome of the preliminary assessment
in (i) above, supporting the establishment of: (A) an entity for medical technology management;
and (B) the establishment of a maintenance system for high cost equipment, including linear
accelerators, computer tomographs and magnetic resonance imaging devices.

Part 3. Strengthen Quality of Service Delivery
(a) Strengthen Quality Improvement Systems

Support the Ministry of Health to: (i) develop national clinical practice guidelines aligned
with international standards; (ii) based on the national clinical practice guidelines referred in (i),
develop Clinical Pathways covering priority disease areas and carry out a phased implementation
of said Clinical Pathways in selected hospitals and Primary Health Care Centers; (i1i) provide
targeted support, with the support of National Agency for Accreditation of Health Care Institutions,
to selected Primary Health Care Centers for the improvement of quality of provision of health care
for priority services, through the carrying out of Training and the provision of technical assistance;
(iv) support the improvement of reporting and use of information on service quality and efficiency
at the Ministry of Health, Health Insurance Fund, Institute of Public Health, and Regional Institutes
of Public Health; (v) develop proposals for amendments to regulations and by-laws that give effect
to the quality of service delivery reforms; (vi) support the integration of primary and secondary
health care Clinical Pathways and improve health care quality and management of waiting times
for patients with malignant diseases; (vii) update existing, and develop new, clinical practice
guidelines; (viii) carry out Training on integrated pathways for healthcare professionals;
(ix) develop a national registry for non-communicable disease for monitoring and evaluation; and
(x) create a disease management program database for most frequent non-communicable disease.

(b) Improve Cancer Management

Increase the coverage and quality of radiation therapy cancer treatment at specialized tertiary
oncology centers, selected pursuant to criteria set forth in the POGM, through: (i) procurement and
installation of a number of accelerators determined pursuant to criteria set forth in the POGM, and
associated equipment and works; (ii) supporting the improvement of monitoring of patient outcomes
and the strengthening of the national cancer registry system, through the carrying out of Training,
information systems, and technical assistance; (iii) improving cancer prevention, diagnostics and
treatment through the development of the Serbian Comprehensive Cancer Management Strategy,
which shall include: (A) early disease detection system; (B) use of digital technologies in cancer
registration, patient treatment data collection, referrals and analysis against international recognized
format; (C) institutionalization of health promotions activities; and (D) setting up of infrastructure for
advance treatment modalities for tertiary level cancer treatment; (iv) improvement of national coverage
and interconnectivity of radiotherapy services through procurement of two linear accelerators and a
CT-simulator, and rehabilitation of two bunkers for the Borrower’s province of Vojvodina, including
their interconnectivity through the procurement of a wide area network platform; and (v) improvement
of diagnostic quality in oncology through the acquisition of diagnostic equipment.

Part 4. Monitoring, Evaluation, and Project Management

Carry out Project management, monitoring and evaluation activities, audits, and financing
of Operating Costs, studies, and carrying out of Training, including to Roma Health Mediators.
SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Section I. Implementation Arrangements

A.

i,

Institutional Arrangements

The Borrower shall assign day to day implementation and management of the Project to its
Ministry of Health, through the PCU.

The Borrower, through the Ministry of Health, shall maintain, throughout Project
implementation, the PCU with terms of reference, staff and resources satisfactory to the
Bank.

The PCU shall be responsible for organizing quarterly Project review meetings to be called
by the Ministry of Health, and attended by relevant officials of the Ministry of Health,
Institute of Public Health, Regional Institutes of Public Health, Health Insurance Fund, and
any other Project stakeholders as relevant.

The Borrower, through the Ministry of Health, shall ensure that the Health Insurance Fund
assists in the implementation of the Project by carrying out the technical activities under
Parts 1 and 2(a) of the Project.

The Borrower, through the Ministry of Health, shall ensure that the National Agency for
Accreditation of Health Care Institutions assists in the implementation of the Project by
carrying out technical activities under Part 2(b) and Part 3(a) of the Project.

The Borrower, through the Ministry of Health, shall ensure that the Institute of Public
Health provides technical support to the Ministry of Health in the carrying out of activities
under Parts 1, 2(a) and 3 of the Project.

The Borrower, through the Ministry of Health, shall ensure that the Regional Institutes of
Public Health assist in the implementation of the Project in their respective areas or regions
by carrying out technical activities under Part 1, Part 2(b) and Part 3 of the Project.

Project Operations and Grants Manual

The Borrower, through the Ministry of Health, the PCU, the Health Insurance Fund, the
National Agency for Accreditation of Health Care Institutions, the Institute for Public
Health, and the Regional Institutes of Public Health, shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the provisions and requirements of an operational manual, in form and
substance satisfactory to the Bank (“Project Operations and Grants Manual” or “POGM”’),
which shall include, inter alia, the following:

(a) institutional coordination and implementation arrangements and procedures for the
Project;

(b) financial management and procurement procedures for the Project;
(c) arrangements for monitoring, evaluation, and reporting of Project implementation;

(d) such other administrative, financial, technical and organizational arrangements,
requirements and procedures as shall be required for the Project, and

(e) for the purposes of carrying out Part 1 (b) of the Project, a grants manual
satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include, inter alia, the following:

(1) eligibility criteria for Beneficiary Primary Health Care Centers;

(ii) procedures and conditions for approval, monitoring, evaluation, and
reporting of Quality Improvement Sub-grants;

(111) financial management procedures and arrangements; and
(iv) implementation timetable for carrying out Part 1 (b) of the Project.

The Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the POGM, or any of its
provisions, without the Bank’s prior agreement. In case of any conflict between the terms
of the POGM and those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.

Quality Improvement Sub-grants

For the purposes of carrying out Part 1(b) of the Project, the Borrower shall, through the
Ministry of Health and with technical oversight by the Health Insurance Fund, make
available Quality Improvement Sub-grants to Beneficiary Primary Health Care Centers
under a Quality Improvement Sub-grant Agreement, on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank, and detailed in the POGM.

The Borrower, shall take all measures necessary to ensure that, in making the Quality
Improvement Sub-grants available to Beneficiary Primary Health Care Centers, the
Ministry of Health shall obtain rights adequate to protect the interests of the Borrower and
those of the Bank, including the right to: (a) suspend or terminate the right of the
Beneficiary Primary Health Care Centers to use the proceeds of the Quality Improvement
Sub-grant, or obtain a refund of all or any part of the amount of the Quality Improvement
Sub-grant then withdrawn, upon the Beneficiary Primary Health Care Centers’ failure to
perform any of its obligations under the Quality Improvement Sub-grant Agreement; and
(b) require each Beneficiary Primary Health Care Center to: (i) carry out the activities for
which the Quality Improvement Sub-grant was given with due diligence and efficiency and
in accordance with sound technical, economic, financial, managerial, standards and
practices satisfactory to the Bank, including in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-
Corruption Guidelines applicable to the recipients of loan proceeds other than the
Borrower; (ii) provide, promptly as needed, the resources required for the purpose of the
Quality Improvement Sub-grant; (iii) procure the goods, works and services to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Quality Improvement Sub-grant in accordance with the
provisions of this Agreement; (iv) upon reasonable request, enable the Borrower and the
Bank to inspect the activities, its operation and any relevant records and documents; and
(v) prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the Bank all such information as the Borrower
or the Bank shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing.

In case of any conflict among the terms of the Quality Improvement Sub-grant Agreement
and this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.

Safeguards

The Borrower, through the Ministry of Health, shall ensure that the Project is carried out
in accordance with the provisions of the EMF, and applicable EMPs. The Borrower shall
not assign, amend, abrogate, or waive the EMF or any EMPs, or any provision thereof,
without prior approval of the Bank.

For purposes of Part 3 of the Project, prior to the issuance of the bidding documents for the
works contract for each accelerator, the Borrower, through the Ministry of Health, shall
prepare and submit to the Bank for its approval: (a) the proposed design and site for said
works, and the related site-specific EMP in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank;
and (b) the draft contract for said works, ensuring that the provisions of the site-specific
EMP are adequately included in said contract.

The Borrower, through the Ministry of Health, shall: (a) ensure that all activities
undertaken for purposes of carrying out the Project comply with environmental, health and
safety standards and guidelines set forth in the EMF; (b) ensure that the selection of any
accelerator site under Part 3 of the Project is done in accordance with the EMF; (c) ensure
the complete implementation of the EMPs in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, including
all necessary measures to minimize and to mitigate any adverse environmental, health and
safety impacts caused by the implementation of the Project; (d) ensure that no private land
acquisition or any resettlement takes place in connection with the Project; and (e) ensure
that appropriate grievance redress mechanisms are available to interested parties, including
local communities, in connection with inconveniences associated with any works under the
Project, and that such interested parties are informed of the availability of such grievance
redress mechanisms.

Section II. Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation

The Borrower, through the Ministry of Health, shall furnish to the Bank each Project
Report not later than one month after the end of each calendar quarter, covering the
calendar quarter.

Section III. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

A.

General

Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and in
accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the Borrower may
withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to: (a) finance Eligible Expenditures; and (b) pay the
Front-end Fee; in the amount allocated and, if applicable, up to the percentage set forth
against each Category of the following table:
  
  

 
 
   

 
 
  
  
 

      

   
   
   
       
    
      

100% (inclusive of Taxes)

 
   
    
 
  

  

(1) Goods, works, non-
consulting services,
Operating Costs, Training
7,237,500
Quality Improvement
a WOE EO 5,000,000 100% (exclusive of Taxes)
Part 3(b)(iv) m °
(3) Goods and works for
Part 3(b)(v) 12,700,000 100% (exclusive of Taxes)

   
  

   
   

    
 

for the Project (except for
Section 2.03 of _ this

s iin
goods and works for
Part 3(b)(iv) and 3(b)(v),
Agreement in accordance with
Section 2.07(b) of the General

SUMO ie Loan Percentage of Expenditures
Category Allocated én tac Hadedl
(expressed in EUR)
including audit, and for
Conditions

    
 

and consultants’ services
Amount payable pursuant to
(4) Front-end Fee

62,500

       

     
 

TOTAL AMOUNT 25,000,000

B. Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.
l. Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A above, no withdrawal shall be made:
(a) for payments before the Signature Date, except that withdrawals up to an aggregate

amount not to exceed Euro 5,000,000 may be made for payments made prior to
this date but on or after February 1, 2018 (but in no case more than one year before
the Signature Date), for Eligible Expenditures under Category 2; or

(b) under Category 3 until the Borrower has: (i) issued a Decree to update Serbia
Against Cancer, including an action plan for its implementation; (ii) issued a
Decree to regulate the national program for the health care network optimization
plan; and (iii) through the Ministry of Health, adopted a rulebook to establish a
unit within the Ministry of Health responsible for the administrative and technical
equipment maintenance system; all in a manner acceptable to the Bank.

Ze The Closing Date is December 31, 2021.
-ll-

SCHEDULE 3
Commitment-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage of the
total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date (“Installment Share’’).

Level Principal Repayments

Principal Payment Date Installment Share

On each February | and August |
Beginning August 1, 2023
through February 1, 2032

On August 1, 2032 5.32%

 
 
  

   
  

   

5.26%

    
 

    
a

APPENDIX

Definitions

10.

‘Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and Corruption
in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants’’, dated October 15, 2006
and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.

“Beneficiary Primary Health Care Center” means a primary health care center in the
territory of the Borrower determined to be eligible for receiving a Quality Improvement
Sub-grant, in accordance with Section C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and the Project
Operations and Grants Manual.

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section III.A of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.

“Clinical Pathway” means a tool used to manage the quality of the health care related to
the standardization of care processes.

“Diagnosis-Related Group” or “DRG” means a statistical system of classifying any
inpatient stay into groups for the purposes of hospital payments.

“EBM” means evidence based medicine, an integration of the best research evidence with
clinical expertise and patient values to make clinical decisions.

‘E-Health system” means the Borrower’s integrated health information system which
stores and process all patient medical and health data, data of health workers, data on health
care facilities and health services, data on electronic assignments and electronic
prescriptions, data on scheduling of medical checks and procedures.

“Environmental Management Framework” or “EMF” means the _ Borrower’s
Environmental Management Framework, dated January 30, 2018, consisting of the set of
principles, rules, guidelines and procedures to assess the environmental, health and safety
impacts and mitigation, monitoring, and institutional measures to be taken to eliminate
adverse said environmental, health and safety impacts, offset them, or reduce them to
acceptable levels, as well as actions and budget needed to implement these measures and a
sample Environmental Management Plan.

“Environmental Management Plan” or “EMP” means a site-specific Environmental
Management Plan prepared during the implementation of the Project, in accordance with
the EMF, describing the environmental, health and safety mitigation measures anticipated
for activities under Part 3 (b) of the Project and the parties responsible for monitoring of
construction and operational environmental, health and safety impacts.

‘European Appropriateness Evaluation Protocol” means a validated European tool to
assess inappropriate hospital admissions and hospital days of stay and their causes.
13.

14.

15.

16.

17.

18.

19.

20.

mAs

. 14 -

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project Financing”, dated July 14,
2017.

‘Health Insurance Fund” means the Borrower’s Health Insurance Fund, or any successor
thereto, established pursuant to the Borrower’s Law on Health Insurance, published in the
Official Gazette of the Republic of Serbia 107/2005, 109/2005, 57/2011, 110/2012,
119/2012, 99/2014, 123/2014, 126/2014, 106/2015, 10/2016.

“Health Technology Assessment” means a systematic and transparent appraisal and
deliberation process that uses criteria such as efficacy, cost-effectiveness, population health
needs, and overall fiscal space to make decisions on the public reimbursement of medical
technologies, devices and procedures.

“Institute of Public Health” means the Borrower’s National Institute of Public Health, or
any successor thereto, established pursuant to the Borrower’s Law on Health Care,
published in the Official Gazette of the Republic of Serbia No. 107/2005, 72/2009,
88/2010, 99/2010, 57/2011, 119/2012, 45/2013, 93/2014, 96/2015, 106/2015, 105/2017,
113/2017.

“Ministry of Health” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Health or any successor thereto.

“National Agency for Accreditation of Health Care Institutions” means the Borrower’s
National Agency for Accreditation of Health Care Institutions, or any successor thereto,
established pursuant to: (i) the Borrower’s Law on Public Agencies, published in the
Official Gazette of the Republic of Serbia No. 18/05, 81/05; (ii) the Borrower’s Law on
Healthcare, published in the Official Gazette of the Republic of Serbia 107/2005, 72/2009,
88/2010, 99/2010, 57/2011, 119/2012, 45/2013, 93/2014, 96/2015, 106/2015, 105/2017,
113/2017; and (iii) the Borrower’s Decision on Establishing the Accreditation Agency,
published in the Official Gazette of the Republic of Serbia No. 94/08.

“Official Gazette of the Republic of Serbia” means the Borrower’s official gazette.

‘“PCU” means the Project Coordination Unit, established within the Ministry of Health, in
accordance with Section I.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Primary Health Care Center’ means a Dom zdravlja, a primary health care center located
in the territory of the Borrower.

“Procurement Regulations” means, for purposes of paragraph 85 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the ‘““World Bank Procurement Regulations for IPF Borrowers’, dated
July 2016, revised November 2017

‘Project Operations and Grants Manual” or “POGM” means the manual dated October 18,
2014, referred to in Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the same may be
amended from time to time in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
eke

Ai

24.

2D.

26.

Zi.

28.

-14-

“Quality Improvement Sub-grant” means the sub-grant made available to a Beneficiary
Primary Health Care Center, for the purposes of Part 1(b)(ii) of the Project, in accordance
with the provisions of the Grants Manual and Section C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Quality Improvement Sub-grant Agreement” means the agreement entered into by the
Borrower and a Beneficiary Primary Health Care Center for the purposes of making a
Quality Improvement Sub-Grant, in accordance with Section C of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.

“Regional Institute of Public Health’ means an entity established pursuant to the
Borrower’s Law on Health Care published in Official Gazette of the Republic of Serbia
No. 107/2005, 72/2009, 88/2010, 99/2010, 57/2011, 119/2012, 45/2013, 93/2014, 96/2015,
106/2015, 105/2017, 113/2017, and the Borrower’s Decree on Health Institutions Network
published in the Official Gazette of the Republic of Serbia No. 42/2006, 119/2007,
84/2008, 71/2009, 85/2009, 24/2010, 6/2012, 37/2012, 8/2014, 92/2015, 111/2017,
114/2017, in charge of covering the area of several municipalities, a large city or a
geographic region of the Borrower for purposes of collecting, monitoring, and providing
healthcare related data (including social, medical, hygienic, ecological, epidemiological
and microbiological data).

“Roma Health Mediators” means women of ethnic Roma origin, fluent in Romani
language, who have at a minimum a primary school diploma and are hired by a Primary
Health Care Center to, inter alia: (i) work in home nursing and care services to strengthen
the linkage between the Roma community and Primary Health Care Centers; and
(ii) educate the Roma population in the area of health care to improve health status and
accessibility of the health system to this vulnerable group.

“Serbia Against Cancer” means the Borrower’s national cancer management program
published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette N. 20/2009.

“Serbian Comprehensive Cancer Management Strategy” means the Borrower’s public
health program to be established by the Borrower, and referred to in Part 3(b)(ii1) of the
Project, designed to reduce the number of cancer cases and deaths and improve treatment
and quality of life of cancer patients.

“Signature Date” means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the Bank
signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to “the date of the Loan
Agreement” in the General Conditions.
