Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

 

a
: een
* 5 ~~ # ¥
Y a X
1 i - a ef
»

id

THE WORLD BANK Bouchard 547, 29th floor Tel.: (54-11) 4316-9700 / 44

IBRD + IDA | WORLD BANKGROUP C1106ABG Fax: (54-11) 4313-1233
Latin America & the Caribbean Ciudad Aut6noma de Buenos Aires

Argentine Republic

vo OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

December 12, 2018

Hernan Lacunza

Minister of Economy
Ministry of Economy
Calle 8 entre 45 y 46
B1900TGR, La Plata
Province of Buenos Aires
Argentine Republic

Ref.: ARGENTINA: Loan No. 8707-AR
(Metropolitan Buenos Aires Urban Transformation Project —
Province of Buenos Aires)

Amendment to the Loan Agreement

Dear Minister:

We refer to the Loan Agreement (the “Loan Agreement”) dated December 21, 2017
between the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the “Bank’’) and the Province
of Buenos Aires (the “Borrower) for the above referred Project. Please note that capitalized terms
used in this letter (“Amendment Letter”) and not defined herein have the meaning ascribed to them
in the Loan Agreement.

In response to letter NO-2018-08414833-GDEBA-DPOMYFBMEGP dated June 8, 2018,
we are pleased to inform you that the Bank concurs with your request. Accordingly:

(a) Section 3.01 of the Loan Agreement is hereby amended to reflect the revised
implementation arrangements for the Project, to read in its entirety as follows:

“3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through OPISU, with the assistance
of: (a) MOI and the Participating Municipalities for purposes of Part 1 of the
Project; and (b) MoE, for purposes of Part 2 of the Project, all in accordance with
the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.”

(b) Schedule 2 of the Loan Agreement is replaced in its entirety to read as set forth in
Attachment 1 to this Amendment Letter, to reflect the revised implementation
arrangements for the Project.

(c) The definition of “IVBA” in paragraph 10 of Section I of the Appendix to the Loan
Agreement is hereby deleted and the subsequent definitions are renumbered
accordingly.
2

(d) The following definition is added in alphabetical order in Section I of the Appendix to
the Loan Agreement, and the subsequent definitions are renumbered accordingly:

““OPISU” means Organismo Provincial de Integracién Social y Urbana, the
Borrower’s Provincial Organization for Social and Urban Integration, created under
the Borrower’s Provincial Law No. 14.989 of December 14, 2017, or any successor
thereto acceptable to the Bank.”

(e) The definition of “Training” in paragraph 22 of Section I of the Appendix to the Loan
Agreement, is hereby amended to delete the words “through MoI”, to read in its
entirety as follows:

““Training” means expenditures (other than those for consulting services) incurred by
the Borrower to finance reasonable transportation costs and per diem of trainees and
trainers, training registration fees, training materials, and rental of training facilities
and equipment under Parts | and/or 2 of the Project.”

All other terms and conditions of the Loan Agreement that have not been amended hereby
shall remain unchanged and in full force and effect.

Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Borrower, by signing
and dating two originals of this Amendment Letter and returning one fully signed original to us.
The amendment set forth in this Amendment Letter will become effective as of December 12, 2018,
upon receipt by the Bank of one fully countersigned original of this Amendment Letter.

Very truly yours,

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

i |
By: :
, sko Hentschel

Director
Argentina, Paraguay and Uruguay
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

AGREED AND CONFIRMED:

     
 

F\BUENOS AIRES

 

rized Representative)
Name: Wer iste Luu 22

Title: \ he Commu,
Date: 2c- c “ 18
Attachment 1

“SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Section I. Implementation Arrangements

A.

l.

Institutional Arrangements

(a) Upon selection of a disadvantaged neighborhood under Part 1 of the Project and
prior to the carrying out of any Project activity in said disadvantaged
neighborhood, the Borrower, through OPISU, shall enter into an agreement with
the Participating Municipality (the Municipality Agreement), under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank, including, inter alia, the Participating
Municipality’s obligation to: (i) carry out the procurement of selected works under
Part 1 of the Project in accordance with the provisions of Section III of this
Schedule; (ii) comply with the Anti-Corruption Guidelines; and (iii) if applicable,
comply with the provisions of the ESMF and the RPF.

(b) (i) The Borrower, through OPISU, shall exercise its rights and carry out its
obligations under each Municipality Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan;
and (ii) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, through OPISU,
shall not assign, amend, abrogate, terminate, waive or fail to enforce any
Municipality Agreement or any provision thereof.

Operational Manual

Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall
carry out the Project through OPISU, with the assistance of: (a) MOI and the Participating
Municipalities for purposes of Part 1 of the Project; and (b) MoE, for purposes of Part 2 of
the Project, all in accordance with the provisions of a manual (the Operational Manual),
acceptable to the Bank, which shall include, inter alia: (i) the procedures for the carrying
out, monitoring and evaluation of Parts 1 and 2 of the Project; (ii) the organizational
structure of Parts 1 and 2 of the Project, including the functions and responsibilities of
OPISU, Mol, MoE, and Participating Municipalities; (iii) the Project procurement and
financial management requirements and procedures; (iv) the ESMF and the RPF; (v) the
standard environmental provisions to be included in the bidding documents for investments
to be carried out under Part 1 of the Project; (vi) the chart of accounts and internal controls
for Parts 1 and 2 of the Project; and (g) the Project monitoring indicators.

Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, terminate or waive
the Operational Manual or any of its provisions. In case of any conflict among the terms of
the Operational Manual and those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall
prevail.

Anti-Corruption

The Borrower shall ensure that Parts 1 and 2 of the Project are carried out in accordance
with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
Safeguards

The Borrower, through OPISU, shall implement: (a) Part 1 of the Project, with the
assistance of Mol and the relevant Participating Municipality; and (b) Part 2 of the Project,
all in accordance with the Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF) and
the Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF).

Upon the definition of detailed technical designs in respect of each investment (involving
works) under Part 1 of the Project, and prior to the carrying out of each said works, the
Borrower, through OPISU, with the assistance of Mol, shall: (a) carry out and/or cause to
be carried out an environmental/social assessment of the pertinent works, and based on the
results of said assessment as determined by the Bank, approve and/or cause to be approved
an environmental/social management plan, acceptable to the Bank, for each said works
(which plan shall be based on the results of the environmental/social assessment mentioned
herein, and the Bank’s comments on the results of said assessment, if any), all in
accordance with the provisions of the Environmental and Social Management Framework;
and (b) immediately after said approval, implement and/or cause to be implemented (as the
case may be) the corresponding environmental/social management plan in accordance with
its terms, and in a manner acceptable to the Bank.

Without limitation to paragraphs | and 2 of this Section, upon the definition of detailed
technical designs and precise sitting alignments in respect of each investment (involving
works) under Part 1 of the Project, if it is determined by the Bank that Resettlement will
be involved, the Borrower shall: (a) prior to the carrying out of each said works, prepare
and furnish to the Bank, a resettlement plan, acceptable to the Bank (which plan shall be
consistent with the pertinent provisions of the Resettlement Policy Framework); and (b)
immediately thereafter, implement and/or cause to be implemented (as the case may be)
said resettlement plan in accordance with its terms and in a manner acceptable to the Bank.

The Borrower, through OPISU, shall ensure that the terms of reference for any
consultancies related to the technical assistance provided under Part | and 2 of the Project,
shall be acceptable to the Bank following its review thereof and, to that end, such terms of
reference shall duly incorporate the requirement of the Bank’s Safeguard Policies then in
force, as applied to the advice conveyed through such technical assistance.
5

Section II. Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

Project Reports

The Borrower, through OPISU, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of Parts 1 and 2 of
the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08
of the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the Bank. Each
Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to
the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of the period covered by such report.

Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits

The Borrower, through MoE, shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial
management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.

Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower, through MoE,
shall prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report not later than 45 days
after the end of each calendar semester, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project
covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.

The Borrower, through MoE, shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance
with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six
months after the end of such period.

Section III. Procurement

All goods, works, non-consulting services and consulting services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in the Procurement Regulations and the
provisions of the Procurement Plan.

Section IV. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

A.

1.

General

The Borrower, through MoE, may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World Bank
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by
the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to
finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.

The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures
in each Category.
      

Percentage of Expenditures
to be financed

    
  

Category Amount of the Loan
Allocated
expressed in USD

(1) (a) Goods, works,
non-consulting services,
consulting services, Training,
Operating Costs for Part 1 of
the Project; and

   

29,025,000

 

 
   
   
    

(b) land acquisition and
compensation related to the
implementation of _ the
Resettlement Policy
Framework for Part 1 of the
Project up to an amount of
$1,500,000, as provided in
paragraph B.2 of this Section

   
        
      
   
  
 

  
   

(2) Goods, non-consulting
services, consulting services,
Training and Operating Costs
for Part 2 of the Project
(3) Front-end Fee

 
 

900,000

 
    
 
 

   

   

Amount payable pursuant to
Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07(b) of the
General Conditions

   

75,000

  
     
 

       
 

(4) Interest Rate Cap or Amount due pursuant to
Interest Rate Collar premium Section 2.08(c) of this
Agreement

      
 

  
 

TOTAL AMOUNT

B. Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

30,000,000

   

Li Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made for
payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed $6,000,000 may be made for payments made prior to this
date but on or after January 16, 2017, for Eligible Expenditures (but in no case after more
than one year before the date of this Agreement).

Ds Without limitation to the provisions of Section 2.08 of the General Conditions, and upon
written request from the Borrower to the Bank to finance with the proceeds of the Loan the
Eligible Expenditures under Category (1) (b), the Bank may reallocate from Category (1)
(a) and/or (2) to Category (1) (b) an amount of the Loan not to exceed $1,500,000.

2 The Closing Date is June 30, 2023.
