Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

LOAN NUMBER 8913-DO

Loan Agreement

(Additional Financing for the Support to the National Education Pact Project)

between
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

 
LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing additional financing for the Original
Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree
as follows:

1.01.

1.02.

ok

2.02.

2.03.

2.04.

2.05.

2.07.

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to and form
part of this Agreement.

Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.

ARTICLE If — LOAN

The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of one hundred million Dollars,
(USD100,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion (which has been requested by the Borrower and accepted by the Bank
in accordance with the pertinent provisions set forth in Article IV of the General
Conditions) (“Loan”), to assist in the additional financing for the Support to the National
Education Pact Project described in Schedule | to this Agreement (“Project”).

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section III of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.

The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.

The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Variable Spread or such rate as may apply
following a Conversion (which has been requested by the Borrower and accepted by the
Bank in accordance with the pertinent provisions set forth in Article IV of the General
Conditions); subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General Conditions.

The Payment Dates are June 1 and December | in each year. jie PE iS

2 ira

Agreement.

 
3.01.

4.01.

4.02.

5.01.

ARTICLE If — PROJECT

The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall carry out the Project through MINERD, with the participation of IDEICE,
INAIPI, INAFOCAM and ISFODOSU, in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions and Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK

The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that the National
Education Pact has been amended, suspended, abrogated, or waived so as to affect
materially and adversely, in the opinion of the Bank, the execution of the Project.

The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that the event
specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of 60 days
after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower.

ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and eighty (180) days after the
Signature Date (unless the Bank, after consideration of the reasons for delay, establishes a
later Effectiveness Deadline for the purposes of Section 9.04 of the General Conditions).

ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

The Borrower’s Representative who, inter alia, may agree to modification of the provisions
of this Agreement on behalf of the Borrower, through exchange of letters (unless otherwise
determined by the Borrower and the Bank), is its Minister of Finance.

For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Borrower’s address is:
Ministerio de Hacienda de la Reptblica Dominicana

Av. México 45, Gazcue

Santo Domingo de Guzman, Distrito Nacional

Republica Dominicana; and

(b) the Borrower’s Electronic Address is:

Facsimile:
809-688-8838

< ~—
; em, 3 gs. ~~
a eb % y ~~,
- ¥ oh cm , %
veg 'OUNS
ie tA . 4 WR
of . < AQ
Jf &, ‘AN
ae a ~ yy
if # “ath <%
/ ax” >
: elas no
¢ { WY oe be Pe w \
ts s tT Teas ar) 5
i{ Om VI ere a
i} omy Kray VOX VE ¥ $
ie oh” Wa 3
f i = Wa) ee Sy %
i * ie > Rag ne it &
\ = Ao By
1 ere
et eS
\ all ]
= is
\ ~ /f
\ & 74
2 \ PSS
= J = ‘ © 4

 

me

‘% ‘a
oN Sa ack jf
a, Me D o.*
we? Domingy
Lo”
6.03.

For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Bank’s address is:

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America; and

(b) the Bank’s Electronic Address is:

Telex: Facsimile: E-mail:

248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391 tsayed@worldbank.org
64145(MCI)

AGREED as of the Signature Date.

DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

» Hal

Authorized Répresentative

Name: ACESSANDRO LER ROTA ELIE

Title: COV ANRY Manag, ER
pate: 10 eewmber 2014

i.

 
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description

The Project consists entirely of the Original Project, which maintains as its objective to
improve the Borrower’s capacity to: (i) recruit and train primary and secondary school teachers;
(11) assess student learning in primary and secondary education; (iii) evaluate the quality of service
provided by Public Early Childhood Development Centers; and (iv) enhance the process for
decentralizing public school management.

The Project consists of the provision of financing of EEPs to support the implementation
of the National Education Pact and includes all the parts previously set forth in the Original Loan
Agreement, which are hereby amended to read as set forth in the following parts:

Part 1. Improving Capacity to Recruit and Train Primary and Secondary School Teachers

Carry out a comprehensive revision of MINERD’s primary and secondary school teacher
recruitment and training activities based on professional standards for teachers set forth in the POM,
with a focus on:

(a) Pre-service training through, inter alia: (i) the revision of ISFODOSU teaching
degree curricula and competence profiles; (ii) the creation of specialized degrees
for secondary school teachers; (iii) the implementation of a quality assurance and
monitoring system for ISFODOSU; (iv) the implementation of a scholarship
program to attract high-performing secondary students to ISFODOSU pre-service
degrees; (v) the implementation of a revised remedial program for admitted
students with skill gaps; and (vi) the revision of the career structure and promotion
schemes of ISFODOSU teachers.

(b) Human resources management, including, inter alia: (i) the design and
implementation of a competitive induction exam and selection process for public
school teachers, administrators and staff; (ii) the launch of an online teacher
recruitment system; and (iii) the launch of web-enabled management information
systems.

(c) The teaching career, through supporting, inter alia, the design, and adoption of: (i)
guidelines for the teaching career; (ii) a revised teacher evaluation based on
international best practices; and (iii) the implementation of key aspects of the
teacher career, including, infer alia, a revised induction program for newly
recruited teachers.

(d) In-service training, through supporting, infer alia: (i) the development and piloting
of in-service training programs for current teachers through INAFOCAM;; (ii) the
revision of guidelines and evaluation of existing in-service programs; (iii)
institutional capacity strengthening for the INAFOCAM evaluation office and
IDEICE; (iv) the incorporation of information and communication tec ;
teacher training programs; (v) the use of data to revise and, rieritize training:
strategies; and (vi) an impact evaluation of in-service programs,“

if oa

  

  

i= gs xy nn
dp DRS SE A,
eT \-z y
i < ER a
vile +\ > ae Stat

 
Part 2. Improving Capacity to Assess Student Learning in Primary and Secondary Education

Support the strengthening of student assessment system through:

(a) Development and implementation of a national strategy for pre-tertiary student
assessments.

(b) Participation in and dissemination of international assessments.

(c) Technical improvement of national student assessments.

(d) Design and implementation of a system for dissemination of results and use of

assessment data.

(e) Development and implementation of national assessments in selected pre-tertiary
grades.

Part 3. Improving Capacity to Evaluate the Quality of Service Provided by Public Early Childhood

Development Centers

Support the organizational design and _ institutional strengthening of INAIPI,
through:

(a) Developing a strategic plan for INAIPI and quality standards systems for Public
Early Childhood Development Centers and personnel.

(b) Development and implementation of an information and communications strategy
to disseminate within the Public Early Childhood Development Centers standards
of quality service delivery, public understanding of the QEC Program, and improve
parenting practices.

Part 4. Improving Capacity to Enhance the Process for Decentralizing Public School Management
Support the decentralization of MINERD’s functions and resources through:

(a) Supporting the increase of established School Management Committees in public
schools through Transfers to SMCs.

(b) Supporting the review of regulations and processes to: (i) increase efficiency in
establishing SMCs; and (ii) streamline SMC account opening procedures.

(c) Implementation of a functional expenditure system for SMCs.
(d) Improving the training of SMCs to develop school improvement plans. and annual
work plans. Ae
(e) Improving financial and procurement practices at the school ute
fz
-5- \z
\

 

ae A

ane Sc 7 IDemnw:

Sa

—
(f)

(g)

Supporting the recruitment, training, and evaluation of decentralized ministry staff
including regional and district directors and school principals.

Supporting decentralized ministry staff in the collection and use of data for
planning and prioritization of interventions.

 

 
SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Section I. Implementation Arrangements

A. Institutional Arrangements.

l. The Borrower shall vest the overall responsibility for the implementation of the Project in
MINERD, and the responsibility for coordination, monitoring and evaluation in OCI. To
this end, the Borrower, shall maintain during the implementation of the Project, OCI with
powers, functions, capacity, staffing, terms of reference, and resources satisfactory to the
Bank to fulfill its respective functions under the Project, as set forth in the Project
Operations Manual.

2. (a) The Borrower, through MINERD, shall operate and maintain, a Project Steering
Committee with composition (consisting of, inter alia: (i) a representative of OCI;
(ii) a representative of the MINERD’s Vice-Ministry of Planning: (iii) a
representative of the MINERD’s Vice-Ministry of Technical and Pedagogical
Services; and (iv) a representative of the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance), with
functions and responsibilities, acceptable to the Bank.

(b) The Steering Committee’s responsibilities shall include, inter alia: (i) providing
strategic guidance to MINERD for overall Project implementation; (ii) regularly
reviewing Project monitoring and evaluation data to determine progress and
proposing adjustments to MINERD to ensure satisfactory achievement of the
Project objective; (iii) monitoring MINERD’s sufficient budgetary allocation for
the carrying out the audit and verification obligations under the Project in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank; (iv) overseeing the reporting, documentation and
submission of DLI achievement, and the timely submission of withdrawal
applications; and (v) overseeing the coordination of technical and decentralized
units of MINERD and respective key stakeholders on key policy issues related to
Project implementation.

3 No later than three (3) months from the Effective Date, the Borrower shall cause its
Ministry of Finance and MINERD to amend the inter-institutional agreement referred to
under Section I1.A.3 of the Original Loan Agreement, under terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank setting forth: (a) the obligation of the Borrower to allocate
additional resources from the Borrower’s Budget to MINERD as required to enable
MINERD to carry out the Project; and (b) the obligation of MINERD to maintain OCI
under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, and allocate budget resources for the
carrying out of the Borrower’s reporting obligations under this Agreement.

  

: ° AOE >
B. Project Operations Manual. i0 = PWN
Les " ON
iF Without limitation upon the provisions of Article V of the General Cofditions and.Section®,
I.A. of this Schedule, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, HeBorcget ugh >
is at an
\ os y
-7- \
MINERD, shall carry out the Project in accordance with the terms of the Project Operations
Manual, satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include, inter alia:

the detailed description of Project implementation activities, their
sequencing, timetable, benchmarks and the institutional arrangements of
the Project;

the Project administrative, accounting, auditing, reporting, financial
(including cash flow aspects in relation thereto), procurement and
disbursement procedures (including all pertinent standard documents and
model contracts in relation thereto);

the plan for the monitoring and supervision of the Project;

arrangements for monitoring, evaluation, and reporting of Project
implementation, including Verification Protocols to confirm DLI

achievement;

the roles and responsibilities of the entities involved in Project
implementation;

the indicators to evaluate the performance of the Project;

the criteria for the preparation of Customized Statements of Expenditures
Reports; and

the SMCs Operations Manual.

Except as the Borrower and the Bank may otherwise agree in writing, the Borrower shall
not abrogate, amend, suspend, terminate, waive or otherwise fail to enforce the Project
Operations Manual or any provision thereof.

In the case of any conflict between the terms of the Project Operations Manual and those
of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.

(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)
(g)
(h)

i.

De:

Section II.

A.

Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

Project Reports.

The Borrower, through MINERD, shall furnish to the Bank each Project Report not later
than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar semester, covering the calendar

semester.

pene

Pe a
_ ae

ee —
JOA bp ee
ie “ . } £ 5 aa ~~

-8-

 

\ os
F A, AN ‘ ak “p
SFM Doing?” Af
a eee
eee

vena
Section III. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. General.

Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and in
accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter (as may be revised
from time to time by the Bank by notice to the Borrower), the Borrower may withdraw the
proceeds of the Loan providing additional financing to: (a) finance Eligible Expenditures
under EEPs, which disbursement is triggered by the achievement of specific DLIs as set
forth under Schedule 4 of this Agreement; and (b) pay the Front-end Fee; in the amount
allocated and, if applicable, up to the percentage set forth against each Category of the
following table, as such table may be modified, as many times it may be necessary, through
the exchange of letters between the Borrower and the Bank, in line with the provisions of
Section 6.01 of this Agreement, and without limitation to the provisions of Section 2.08 of
the General Conditions:

   

   
   
  
   

Amount of the Loan
Allocated
expressed in USD

99,750,00

250,000

Category Percentage of Expenditures
to be financed
inclusive of Taxes
100% up to the amount of the
Loan allocated to each DLI, as
set forth in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement
Amount payable pursuant to
Section 2.03 of _ this
Agreement in accordance with
Section 2.07 (b) of the General
Conditions

   
     
  
   
      

   
    
  
   
         
    

   

(1) Payments for EEPs

  
     

 

(2) Front-end Fee

   
   

TOTAL AMOUNT 100,000,000

B. Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.
i Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A above, no withdrawal shall be made:
(a) for payments made prior to the Signature Date, except that withdrawals up to an

aggregate amount not to exceed twenty million Dollars ($20,000,000) may be
made for payments made prior to this date up to twelve (12) months prior to the
Signature Date; or

(b) for any DLI, until and unless the Borrower has furnished evidence satisfactory to
the Bank that said DLI has been achieved.

2. With respect to withdrawals under Category (1), and as provided under paragraph B.1(b)

of this Section, payments shall be made in November of, or a soon as practi fter
in, each year during Project implementation upon timely submittal byth@Borrowémg

withdrawal request acceptable to the Bank and pursuant to the Disbursémient and Financia)

%
4
\

  

. . . . i or ‘
Information Letter. Such withdrawal request shall include evidence Am form an@sut a
acceptable to the Bank of: (a) EEPs incurred, as presented in a Customized: statement of /

-9- \2 Soy
\ Goes yi
C/f
\ Sf
\ Sang aif

NO rere gO

  
4.

Expenditures Report; and (b) supporting documentation confirming the Borrower’s
achievement of the respective DLI, as referred to in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and as
set forth in the Verification Protocols. The Bank may accept withdrawal requests
submitted pursuant to the provisions of this section, in respect of any DLI achieved prior
to the date by which such DL] is set to be achieved.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs B.1(b) and B.2 of this Section, if the Bank
is not satisfied that any DLI under Category (1) has been achieved by the date by which
the respective DLI is set to be achieved, as set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the
Bank may at any time, and by notice to the Borrower, decide, in its sole discretion to:

(a) withhold the unwithdrawn proceeds of the Loan then allocated to said DLI
until the Bank is satisfied that said DLI has been fully achieved; or

(b) (1) reallocate all or a portion of the proceeds of the Loan then allocated to
said DLI to any other DLI; and/or (2) cancel all or a portion of the proceeds
of the Loan then allocated to said DLI.

If, at any time, the Bank determines that any portion of the amounts withdrawn by the
Borrower under Category (1) was made: (a) for ineligible expenditures; or (b) not in
compliance with the provisions of part B.2 of this Section, the Borrower shall promptly
refund any such amount to the Bank as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
The Bank shall cancel such refunded amount.

The Closing Date is September 30, 2022 (or such other date as the Bank shall establish,
upon a request from the Borrower, by notice to the Borrower).

-10-

 
 

SCHEDULE 3

Commitment-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule — Bullet Repayment

The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in full on December 1, 2038.

 

-l1-

 
SCHEDULE 4
Disbursement-Linked Indicators*

  
  
  
   
 

  
    
   
     
    
 
 
  
   
    
  
  
   
 

DLI 23: MINERD uses
assessment data to prioritize
teacher in-service training
strategies

(Value: US$6.0 M)

      
 
     
       
      

DLI 27: MINERD incorporates
information and
communications technology
(ICT) into an in-service teacher
training program
Value: US$4.0 M
DLI 28: ISFODOSU prepares
itself to initiate the accreditation
process by carrying out an auto-
evaluation aligned with
international standards (Value:
US$4.0 M
DLI 29: MINERD produces and
delivers school-level reports
with recommendations from 9th
grade assessment
(Value: US$4.75 M)

DLI 34: At least 10% of
teachers who enroll in an
ICT-based in-service
training program complete it
(Value: US$6.0 M)

    
   
   
  

Part 1: Improving
capacity to recruit
and train primary
and secondary
school teachers

    
   
 

DLI 35: ISFODOSU
formally initiates the process
of international accreditation
of its first-cycle teacher
training programs
alue: US$6.0 M
DLI 36: MINERD produces
and delivers school-level
reports that track progress
across the two waves of the
assessment for the first cycle
of primary education

      
 
  
 
   
   
  
  
  
  
  

  
  
   
    
  

DLI 21: MINERD DLI 24: MINERD produces
administers a student and delivers school-level
assessment for the 6th reports with

grade recommendations from 6th
(Value: US$6.0 M) grade assessment
(Value: US$6.0 M)

   
    
   
  

     
  
   
  

Part 2: Improving
capacity to assess
student learning in
primary and
secondary education

DLI 30: MINERD administers a
student assessment for the first
cycle of primary education for
the second time (Value: US$5.0
M
DLI 25: MINERD DLI 31: MINERD disseminates
administers a student results of PISA 2018
assessment for the 9th grade | (Value: US$4.0 M)

Value: US$6.0 M
DLI 22: MINERD DLI 26: MINERD publishes | DLI 32: First cohort of public
competitively appoints at | and distributes new regional | school principals has completed
least 90% of regional and | and district operations training using improved

district directors manuals, and develops an methods

(Value: US$6.0 M) implementation plan (Value: | (Value: US$4.0 M)

  
 
  

  
 
    
 

 

 
 
 
 
  
  
 

  
      
  
   
  

   
  
   
    

DLI 37: Second cohort of
public school principals has
completed training using
improved methods (Value:
US$4.0 M)

DLI 33: MINERD develops DLI 38: 30% of school
targets for student achievement | districts collect school

at the regional, district, and infrastructure information to
school levels, and a monitoring | improve disaster risk

plan to track progress against management

Part 4: Improving targets (Value: US$4.0 M)
capacity to enhance Value: US$4.0M
the process for

decentralizing public
school management

  

DLI 39: 2,500 School
Management Committees
(Juntas de Centro) are fully
functional (Value: US$5.0

DLI 40: MINERD uses
improved methods to train

district and regional staff in
. we to improve student

 

YX eh,
Rw Somin i RE

i

   
    
   
   
   
    
   
   
  
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
  
 
   
 
 

   
  
    

  
 
 
   
 

USS

26.0M

36.75 M

37.0M

 
   
 
 

   
   
   
 
 

Estimated
disbursement

   
 

 

12M 24M

29.75 M
* The fulfillment of these DLIs will enable the Borrower to achieve the objectives of the Project
and obtain the disbursement of Loan proceeds in accordance with the pertinent provisions of this
Agreement. The amount of the Loan allocated to each DLI is based on projected expenses incurred
by the Borrower with the purpose of achieving these DLIs and documented through Eligible

  

34M 99.75 M

Expenditures under the Project.

 

ey

een 5

MiNi seo

 

ott.
APPENDIX
Definitions

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and Corruption
in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006
and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.

“Borrower’s Budget” means the Borrower’s annual budget, approved by the Borrower’s
Parliament, from time to time.

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section III.A of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.

“Customized Statement of Expenditures Report” means any report prepared by the
Borrower in accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter and set
forth in the Project Operations Manual and referred to in Section III.B.2 of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement on the spending status of the EEPs in relation to the Borrower’s Budget.

“Disbursement-Linked Indicator” or “DLI’’ means an indicator, set forth in Schedule 4 of
this Agreement, the achievement of which is a condition for disbursement of Loan
Proceeds, pursuant to Section III.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Education Law” means the Borrower’s Law 66-97, dated April 9, 1997, as amended to
the date of this Agreement.

“Eligible Expenditure Programs” or “EEPs” means a set of defined expenditures within the
Borrower’s Budget for financing of: (a) remuneration of staff of ISFODOSU,
INAFOCAM, IDEICE and MINERD; (b) fuel and lubricants for ISFODOSU’s vehicles
used in respect of the Project; and (c) Transfers to SMCs.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project Financing”, dated July 14,
2017.

“IDEICE” means Instituto Dominicano de Evaluacion e Investigacion de la Calidad
Educativa, the Dominican Institute of Research and Evaluation, established as a
decentralized entity of MINERD, pursuant to Order 03-2008 of the National Education
Council and pursuant to Article 78 of the Education Law, or any successor thereto
satisfactory to the Bank.

“INAFOCAM” means Jnstituto Nacional de Formacion y Capa edad Magisterio,
lisheda

the National Institute of Education and Training of Teachers, establ ecentralized
entity of MINERD, pursuant to Article 129 of the Educatiost Law, or any sueedss sor thereto
satisfactory to the Bank. fe Fe. “Ay,
13
“1 \

 
rs

14.

LD.

20.

mh

2.

“INAIPI” means Instituto Nacional de Atencién Integral a la Primera Infancia, the
National Institute of Comprehensive Care for Early Childhood, established as a
decentralized entity of MINERD, pursuant to Article 7 of the Borrower’s Decree 102-13,
dated April 12, 2013, or any successor thereto satisfactory to the Bank.

“ISFODOSU” means Instituto de Formacién Docente Salomé Urefia, the Borrower’s
Salomé Urefia Teacher Training Institute, established as a decentralized entity of
MINERD, pursuant to Decree 427-00, dated August 15, 2000, and Decree 571-03, dated
June 16, 2003, or any successor thereto satisfactory to the Bank.

“Ministry of Finance” means Ministerio de Hacienda, the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance.

“MINERD” means Ministerio de Educacion, the Borrower’s Ministry of Education, or any
successor thereto satisfactory to the Bank.

“National Education Pact” means the Pacto Nacional Para la Reforma Educativa en la
Republica Dominicana (2014-2030), dated April 1, 2014, set forth pursuant to the
Borrower’s National Development Strategy 2030 (Law 1-12), and Decree 228-13, a
document reflecting a broad-based consensus among the Borrower’s key stakeholders, and
aimed at transforming the education system in the Borrower’s territory.

“OCI” means Oficina de Cooperacién Internacional, the MINERD’s International
Cooperation Office, responsible for coordinating and overseeing the Borrower’s
internationally funded projects in the education sector, or any successor thereto satisfactory
to the Bank.

“Original Loan Agreement” means the loan agreement for the Original Project between the
Borrower and the Bank, dated October 8, 2015, as amended as of the Signature Date (Loan
No. 8540-DO).

“Original Project” means the project described in Schedule 1 to the Original Loan
Agreement.

“Procurement Regulations” means, for purposes of paragraph 85 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the “World Bank Procurement Regulations for IPF Borrowers”, dated
July 2016, revised November 2017 and August 2018.

“Project Operations Manual” or “POM” means the manual dated October 24, 2018,
acceptable to the Bank and referred in Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, setting
forth the operational and administrative responsibilities, procedures and rules for the
implementation of the Project.

“Project Steering Committee” means the committee referred to in section I. A.2 of Schedule
2 to this Agreement, tasked with overall guidance and coordination ov

   

ZO a ro
“Public Early Childhood Development Centers” means Centros, hie tencion integ ;para

la Primera Infancia (Estancias Infantiles), the Borrower’ S) jens ee
functioning under the QEC Program. , it

-15- \2

 
a).

24.

25.

26.

27.

28.

“QEC Program” means Sistema Nacional de Proteccién a la Primera Infancia, also
referred to as Quisqueya Empieza Contigo, the Borrower’s program for the provision of
early childhood development services as set forth in the Borrower’s Decree 102-13, dated
April 12, 2013, or a successor program satisfactory to the Bank.

“School Management Committees” or “SMCs” means Juntas de Centro, as set forth in
Article 93 of the Borrower’s Education Law.

“Signature Date” means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the Bank
signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to “the date of the Loan
Agreement” in the General Conditions.

“SMCs Operations Manual” means the Borrower’s Manual de Operacion de Juntas
Escolares and the Instructivo para el Manejo de Fondos Transferidos a las Juntas
Regionales, de Distrito y Centro Educativo, satisfactory to the Bank, and incorporated in
the Project Operations Manual.

“Transfers to SMCs” means periodic transfers of budgetary funds by MINERD to the
account of an SMC for the purposes of supporting the development of schools, managing
of human, physical, and financial resources, and promoting community participation in
school activities and decisions, all in accordance with the SMCs Operations Manual, and
the Borrower’s applicable laws and regulations.

“Verification Protocols” means the set of protocols setting forth the actions and
mechanisms required for verification of DLIs, agreed with the Bank and included in the
Project Operations Manual, and referred to in Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
as the same may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank.

 

-46-
