Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

 

FFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

 

 

LOAN NUMBER 89110-IN

Loan Agreement

(Jharkhand Municipal Development Project)
between
INDIA
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated Fyun— 2y  ,2019

 

 
So

LOAN NUMBER 89110-IN

LOAN AGREEMENT

5 =
eS See SRN MRR SRN RU cpr MFO | pee AAR teat

AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between INDIA (“Borrower”) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”). The
Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:

SH oe
a - :

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

Set: a

1.01. The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to and form
part of this Agreement.

CORRE gp

1.02. Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.

%
;
3
;

ARTICLE H — LOAN

2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of one hundred and forty-seven
million United States Dollars (USD 147,000,000), as such amount may be converted from
time to time through a Currency Conversion (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project
described in Schedule | to this Agreement (“Project”).

2.02. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section III of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

2.03. The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.

 

2.04. The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.

7 2.05. The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Variable Spread or such rate as may apply
following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General Conditions.

2.06. The Payment Dates are April 15" and October 15" in each year.

 

2.07. The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.

  

ie
:
4
q
+
j

SE Fa A RAS Poa RRPRe. SOUR OR een Nacsa SAR actos ah
© PTR NONE, SSE Rite i

lewd
‘ ORS 8 RS

  
 

PREIS AE BOLE SSS il EE It Oi Bh NEN AS ERR Hk cE TS EL IRC Spe HENGE AAA Ah ST a TNR A AS eS RE Bn ESN nhs NAMB Fd ARAL AAPL fh wa ae ABT AND PAS Seen aaah RR aR ALA EE np TITAS a cg cD eR SE oa . pias

 
 

2.08.

Al.

4.01.

4.02.

a.

(a) If on any given day, the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit
(as said terms are defined in sub-paragraphs (b)(ii) and (b)(iii) of this Section), the
Borrower shall pay to the Bank a surcharge at the rate of one half of one percent
(0.5%) per annum of the Allocated Excess Exposure Amount (as defined in
sub-paragraph (b)(i) of this Section) for each said day (“Exposure Surcharge”).
The Exposure Surcharge (if any) shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each
Payment Date.

(b) For purposes of this Section the following terms have the meanings set forth below:

(1) “Allocated Excess Exposure Amount” means for each day during which
the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit, the product
of: (A) the total amount of said excess; and (B) the ratio of all (or, if the
Bank so determines, a portion) of the Loan to the aggregate amount of all
(or the equivalent portions) of the loans made by the Bank to the Borrower
and to other borrowers guaranteed by the Borrower that are also subject to
an exposure surcharge, as said excess and ratio are reasonably determined
from time to time by the Bank.

(ii) “Standard Exposure Limit” means the standard limit on the Bank’s
financial exposure to the Borrower which, if exceeded, would subject the
Loan to the Exposure Surcharge, as determined from time to time by the
Bank.

(ui) | Total Exposure” means for any given day, the Bank’s total financial
exposure to the Borrower, as reasonably determined by the Bank.

ARTICLE Il — PROJECT

The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall ensure that the Project Implementing Entity carries out, and causes JUIDCO
(“Implementing Agency”) to carry out, the Project in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions, Schedule 2 to this Agreement and the Project
Agreement.

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK

The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following: JUIDCO Legislation has
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely its ability to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.

The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following: The event specified in
Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of sixty (60) days
after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
SiS SESS SSS SEE ea eR

See

SRE a ee eee eee

Sa PARSE as

   

5.01

5.02.

6.01.

6.02.

6.02.

ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

- The Additional Condition of Effectiveness is that, JUIDCO shall have prepared and adopted
the Operations Manual set forth in Section I.C. of the Schedule to the Project Agreement,
in a manner and substance acceptable to the Bank.

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the Signature Date.
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

The Borrower’s Representative is any of the following officials acting severally: The
Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary or Under
Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs of the Ministry of Finance of the

Borrower.

For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) the Borrower’s address is:
Secretary

Department of Economic Affairs

Ministry of Finance, Government of India

North Block

New Delhi 110001, India; and
(b) the Borrower’s Electronic Address is:

Facsimile: E-mail:

91-11-2309 4075 | secy-dea@nic.in
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) the Bank’s address is:

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development

1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America; and

(b) the Bank’s Electronic Address is:

Telex: Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)

 
 

it.

AGREED as of the Signature Date.

   

INDIA
By
Representative
Name: SPIoMEéER KUSTAR KA+IPRES
Title: AAAB/7I0A AL Seeeny
Date: Swe 27 20M
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR

RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By hath
LL

Authorized Representative

Name: S*7ANZ&EL LAz

Title: Az#7A04 COUNTRY Meccan R, Taos &
Date: JuukE £Y Ro/
APRA

SRR LES:

SAAT RSs 6

Seu Py Ser pahgagtrin ort Porgy, Revie NES

 

Se we eae
SIME Sa LIONEL A Mig RRR GS RG CE a

eRe

4

é

LS RE ANNE ENT OR RS SRL oh A a

Gipiis Rete ome

SCHEDULE 1
Project Description

The objective of the Project is to provide improved access to basic urban services and
management capacity in Participating ULBs in Jharkhand.

The Project consists of the following parts:

Part 1: Urban Infrastructure Improvement

Financing selected Sub-Projects of Participating ULBs covering a range of basic municipal
infrastructure, including water supply, sewerage, drainage, roads and solid water
management, as well as their operation and maintenance.

Part 2: Institutional Development

(a) Strengthening ULB Revenue Base and Public Financial Management Systems: (i) Building
the institutional capacity of ULBs in Jharkhand, including by targeting the new municipal
cadre proposed/inducted by UDHD; and (ii) strengthening the revenue base of ULBs and
institutionalize sound public financial management systems in the Participating ULBs so
as to ensure sustainability of assets set up under the Project; and

(b) Policy and Institutional Support: Building the institutional capacity of Project-associated
state-level urban institutions, including the organization development of JUIDCO.

Part 3: Project Management and Implementation Support

(a) Carrying out Project management, construction, supervision and implementation support
activities through JUIDCO, SUDA, the SIAs and the Participating ULBs; and

(b) Preparation of priority detailed project reports.

 
wait Sake wx laine soccans i onsonama Audaens bathe aap

 

SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Section I. Implementation Arrangements

a

Institutional Arrangements.

To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make the proceeds of the
Loan available to Jharkhand in accordance with the Borrower’s standard arrangements for
developmental assistance to the States of India.

Notwithstanding paragraph | above, in the event that any provision of this Agreement,
including the instructions that the Bank shall have specified by notice to the Borrower
pursuant to Section 2.01(b) of the General Condition (including the Disbursement and
Financial Information Letter), were to be found inconsistent with the Borrower’s standard
arrangements for development assistance to the States of India, the provisions of this
Agreement and related instructions shall prevail.

The Borrower shall protect the interests of the Bank to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.

Section I. Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to ensure that JUIDCO furnishes
to the Bank each Project Report not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each
calendar quarter, covering the calendar quarter.

Section ITI. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

A.

General.

Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and in
accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the Borrower may
withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to: (a) finance Eligible Expenditures; and (b) pay: (i)
the Front-end Fee; and (ii) each Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar premium; in the
amount allocated and, if applicable, up to the percentage set forth against each Category of

the following table: |
ese amiga sete PAN “

  
   
   
  

   
      
 
 

   
   
     
   

Amount of the Loan | Percentage of Expenditures

Category Allocated to be financed
(expressed in USD) (inclusive of Taxes)

(1) Works, goods, non-consulting
services, and consulting services, 146,632,500 10%
Training and Incremental
Operating Costs for the Project
| Amount payable pursuant to
367,500

Section 2.03 of this
TOTAL AMOUNT 147,000,000

Agreement in accordance
B. Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.

  

   
 
    

(2) Front-end Fee

    

 
   
   

 

with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
Amount due pursuant to
Section 4.05 (c) of the

General Conditions

 
    

(3) Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate

    
   

        

L. Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A above, no withdrawal shall be made for payments
made prior to the Signature Date, under Category | above, except that withdrawals up to
an aggregate amount not to exceed USD 29,400,000 may be made for payments made prior
to this date but on or after April 1, 2018, for Eligible Expenditures.

Z The Closing Date is October 31, 2025.

cq. Ineligible Expenditures
Notwithstanding the provision of sub-Section ITI.A and III.B (above) of this Schedule, the
following expenditures shall not be considered Eligible Expenditures for purposes of this
Loan, and the Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity and/or the
Implementing Agency to finance such expenditures exclusively out of their own resources,
and not out of the proceeds of the Loan, namely:

(a) all land acquisition required for the purpose of the Project;

(b) any compensation, resettlement and rehabilitation payment to Displaced
Persons in accordance with the provision of the RAP(s);

(c) any interest during construction;

(d) any retention money deducted from contract payments, and not released by
Closing Date; and

AAI aa Ee eR Ap Seb RET oS REED SS Sih eA RENE Nan Re oe
OS ACen tere re Scns

Sarre iS
-8-

(e) any expenditures objected or considered ineligible by the Bank internal
auditors or the independent auditors in the Project’s Financial Statements
prepared pursuant to Section 5.09 of the General Conditions

 
-9-

SCHEDULE 3
Commitment-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage of the
total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date (“Installment Share”).

Level Principal Repayments

Principal Payment Date Installment Share

On each April 15 and October 15
Beginning April 15, 2026 3.23%
through October 15, 2040 ee

On April 15, 2041 | 3.10%

        
     
  

    
 

    
 

|

St eet he ae ee ei ise ae meh i eRe ee GE a ala a a gh ean aa See a eee cece ike MS eis Geral cic ok Rae geese oe tg ne ae ae ee ee

 

 
 

3
5
4
|
{
i

-10-

APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

“AMRUT” means, the Atal Mission for Urban Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation
scheme of the Borrower focusing on the coverage of basic urban services.

“AMRUT SMMU” means, the AMRUT State Mission Management Unit formed within
SUDA under UDHD, Government of Jharkhand.

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and Corruption
in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006
and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.

“ARAP” means each of the abbreviated Resettlement Action Plans prepared for the Khunti
Water Supply Sub-project and Dhanbad Road Sub-Projects, in line with the RPF, disclosed
on December 4, 2017 and August 24, 2018, respectively, comprising measures to mitigate
resettlement and rehabilitation under the Sub-projects, as such plans may be amended from
time to time with the Bank’s prior written agreement.

“Board of Directors” means the Board of Directors of JUIDCO, appointed pursuant to
Section VIII and [LX of JUIDCQ’s Articles of Association.

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section II.A of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.

“City-Level PIUs” means the Project implementation units (to be) established by JUIDCO
pursuant to Section 1.A.3 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.

“CSQC Consultant” means the construction supervision and quality control consultant to
be selected and engaged by JUICO pursuant to Section I.A.5.(c) of the Schedule to the
Project Agreement.

“Dam Safety Plan” means, each of the safety plans for an existing dam on which one or
more Sub-Projects rely upon, to be prepared by the Project Implementing Entity, JUIDCO
and/or the dam’s owner pursuant to the provisions of the ESMF, and paragraph 2 of Section
LE. 1(ii) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, and which includes, as applicable: (a) a
plan for construction supervision and quality assurance encompassing the organization,
staffing levels, procedures, equipment, and qualifications for supervision of the remedial
work on the existing dam or a set of generic dam safety measures designed by qualified
engineers to address potential adverse impacts; (b) an operation and maintenance plan
covering: (1) the organizational structure, staffing, technical expertise, and training
required; (ii) the equipment and facilities needed to operate and maintain the dam; and (iii)
id
se
H

Qo R Aen

oe

10.

14.

15.

at Ve

the operation and maintenance procedures and the funding arrangements therefor
(including long-term maintenance and safety inspections); and (c) an emergency
preparedness plan, as necessary, specifying the roles of responsible parties when dam
failure is considered imminent, or when expected operational flow release threatens
downstream life, property, or economic operations that depend on river flow levels.

“Dhanbad Roads Sub-Projects” means Sub-project financing the construction of 20 km of
roads in the city of Dhanbad.

“Displaced Persons” means persons who, on account of the execution of the Project, have
experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts caused by: (a) the
involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets or
access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources or means of livelihood, whether or not such
persons must move to another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally
designated parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impact on the livelihoods of such
persons.

“Environmental and Social Management Framework” and the acronym “ESMF” mean the
environmental and social framework, including the RPF and the STPPF, adopted by
JUIDCO for the Project and disclosed on November 16, 2017, setting forth the guiding
principles, processes and procedures for: (a) the screening Sub-project activities and the
identification of any adverse or positive environmental and social impacts caused, or
expected to be caused, on account of their implementation; and (b) the preparation and
implementation of the prescribed ESMP(s), RAP(s) and/or STPP, pursuant to Section I.D.2
of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, as such a framework may be amended, from
time to time, with the prior written concurrence of the Bank.

“Environmental and Social Management Plan” and the acronym “ESMP” mean each of the
environmental and social management plans (to be) prepared pursuant to Section [.D.2 of
the Schedule to the Project Agreement and in accordance with the provisions of the ESMF
Framework (including the plan dated December 8, 2017 for the Khunti Water Supply
Sub-Project and the plan disclosed on January 11, 2018 as re-disclosed on August 24, 2018
for the Dhanbad Roads Sub-projects), in each case setting out mitigation, enhancement,
monitoring and institutional measures, including capacity building through training,
required to: (i) eliminate adverse environmental impacts of activities to be implemented
under the Project, including impacts on community and cultural assets/properties; (ii) offset
them, or reduce them to acceptable levels; (iii) enhance any positive impacts thereof; and/or
(iv) ensure compliance with Borrower’s and Jharkhand’s statutory environmental
requirements, as such plans may be amended from time to time with the Bank’s prior
written agreement.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project Financing”, dated
July 14, 2017, with the modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.

“Implementing Agency” means JUIDCO or any of its successor thereto.

 
 

16.

17.

20.

ol.

az.

-.

24.

-12-

“Incremental Operating Costs” means the reasonable incremental costs incurred by
JUIDCO, SUDA, the Participating ULBs and/or the SIAs on account of carrying out
the Project, including salaries of contractual staff appointed and staff deputed to the
Project, office rent and utilities, office and equipment maintenance and repair, vehicle
operating and maintenance costs, communication and travel, and other incidental and
necessary expenditures in connection with the Project.

“Indigenous Peoples/Schedule Tribes” means any distinct, vulnerable, social and cultural
group within the territory of the Borrower, that: (i) self-identifies as such and claims, and
is recognized by others as, having a distinguishable cultural identity; (ii) has collective
attachment to geographically distinct habitats or ancestral territories in the Project area,
and to the natural resources in these habitat and territories; (iii) has customary cultural,
economic, social and political institutions that are separate from those of the dominant
society and culture; (iv) has an indigenous language, often different from the official
languages of the Borrower; and/or (v) as defined by the Constitution of India.

“Jharkhand” means the Borrower’s State of Jharkhand, or any successor thereto.

“Jharkhand Urban Infrastructure Development Company Limited” and the acronym
“JUIDCO” mean a state-owned corporation registered and operating under the Borrower's
Companies Act of 2013, pursuant to Registration No. U45200JH2013GC001752 of
November 19, 2013, or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.

“JUIDCO Legislation” means the Memorandum and Articles of Association of JUIDCO,
as amended to the date of this Agreement.

“JUIDCO PMU” means the Project management unit established by JUICDO in
accordance with the Operations Manual for purposes of carrying out the Project and
referred to in Section LA.2 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.

“Khunti Water Supply Sub-project” means the Sub-Project financing a water treatment
plant of 16 MLD, distribution network and house connection with provision of meters in
Khunti town, Jharkhand.

“Operations Manual” means the manual to be prepared by JUIDCO and adopted by
JUIDCO and the Project Implementing Entity, pursuant to Section I.C of the Schedule to
the Project Agreement, detailing the protocols, policies, and procedures to be applied in
the carrying out the Project, as such manual may be amended from time to time with the
prior written concurrence of the Bank.

“Participating Urban Local Body” and “Participating ULB” mean each city or urban area
in Jharkhand that has been found eligible by JUIDCO to participate in the implementation
of a Sub Project under Part | of the Project in accordance with eligibility criteria set out in
the Operations Manual.
ashen

aa bier AI re a ie

PEER E TAIL GRRE Ta

25.

26.

ai.

28.

29.

30.

31.

32.

33.

-13-

“Procurement Regulations” means, for purposes of paragraph 85 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the “World Bank Procurement Regulations for IPF Borrowers”, dated
July 2016, revised November 2017.

“Project Implementing Entity” means the State of Jharkhand (also referred to as
Jharkhand).

“Resettlement Policy Framework” and the acronym “RPF” mean the resettlement policy
and compensation framework prepared as part of the ESMF to handle any potential
resettlement, compensation to, and rehabilitation, of Displaced Persons, and the processing
of complaints and grievance redress and other related matters, as may be amended from
time to time with the prior written concurrence of the Bank.

“Resettlement Action Plan” and the acronym “RAP” mean each of the plans prepared or
to be prepare by JUIDCO or the SIAs for individual Sub Projects as/where prescribed by
the Resettlement Policy Framework, including each of the ARAPs, in order to handle any
resettlement and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons, the processing of complaints and
grievance redress and other related matters, as such plan may be amended from time to
time with the prior written concurrence of the Bank.

“RMU” means the reforms management unit established by SUDA in accordance with the
Operations Manual for purposes of carrying out Part 2 of the Project and referred to in
Section I.A.4 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement. ‘

“Safeguards Document” means, collectively, the ESMF (including the RPF and STPPF),
the ESMPs, the RAPs, the STPPs and the Dam Safety Plans.

“Scheduled Tribe Participation Policy Framework” and the acronym “STPPF” means the
framework prepared as part of the ESMF to promote the effective participation of
Indigenous Peoples/Scheduled Tribes in the Project as such a framework may be amended,
from time to time, with the prior written concurrence of the Bank.

“Scheduled Tribe Participation Plan” and the acronym “STPP” mean each of the plans
(to be) prepared for individual Sub Projects pursuant to the STPPF under ESMF, including
the plans dated December 4, 2017 for the Khunti Water Supply Sub-Project, and
comprising measures aimed at: (i) minimizing the adverse impacts of Project activities on
Indigenous Peoples/Schedule Tribes; (ii) offsetting such impacts, or reduce them to
acceptable levels; and (iii) enhancing positive impacts thereof so that the Indigenous
Peoples/Schedule Tribes receive culturally appropriate social and economic benefits; as
such plans may be amended from time to time with the prior written concurrence of the
Bank

“Signature Date” means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the Bank
signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to “the date of the Loan
Agreement” in the General Conditions.
 

34.

35.

36.

at.

38.

a.

40.

41.

42.

-14-

“SIA” means a special implementation agency, being in the nature of a state agency, state

_owned enterprise or state department, identified or to be identified by JUIDCO, and vetted

by the Bank, for purposes of assisting JUIDCO with the implementation of specific
Sub-Projects, pursuant to the provisions of the respective Sub-Project Agreement; and
“SIAs” shall mean the special implementation agencies collectively.

“SIA PMU” means the Project management unit to be established by each selected SIA for
the carrying out of a delegated Sub-Project in accordance with the Operations Manual and
the provision of the respective Sub-Project Agreement and referred to in Section I.B.3(f)
of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.

“Sub-Project” means a municipal infrastructure investment proposed by Participating
UBLs and approved by JUIDCO for implementation under Part 1 of the Project in
accordance with the provision and selection criteria set forth in the Operations Manual.

“Sub-Project Agreement” means each of the bilateral or tripartite agreements referred to
in Section I.B. 3 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement to be entered into between
JUIDCO, the SIA and, as the case may be, a Participating UBL, for purposes of
determining the allocation of personalities in the carrying out of specific Sub-Projects,
subject to the prior concurrence of the Bank.

“SUDA” means UDHD’s State Urban Development Authority, or any successor thereto.

“The Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressa!)
Act” means the Borrower’s Act No. 14 of 2013 of April 22nd, 2013, published in
The Gazette of India on April 23, 2013, as amended and/or supplemented to the date of
this Agreement.

“Training” means the reasonable costs of training, workshops, conferenced and/or study
tours conducted in the territory of the Borrower and, subject to the Bank’s prior approval,
overseas, including course fees, logistics expenses, rental of training facilities, purchase
and publication of training materials, and travel and subsistence allowance for trainers
and/or trainees.

“UDHD” means the Urban Development and Housing Department of the State of
Jharkhand, or its successor thereto.

“ULB” means an urban local body established pursuant to the Jharkhand Municipal Act,
2011 (as amended to the date of this Agreement).
a

Section IL. Modifications to the General Conditions
The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:

l. Any reference to the “Project Implementing Entity” throughout the General Conditions
shall be construed, for purposes of this Agreement and/or the Project Agreement, as a
reference to the “Project Implementing Entity and the Implementing Agency.”

2. Any reference to the “Project Implementing Entity’s Representative” throughout the
. General Conditions shall be construed, for purposes of this Agreement and/or the Project
Agreement, a reference to each of the “JUIDCO’s Representative.”

Rinehart aoe oN Oa een nl

ARO AERE SS CNG NE RINE EARN AAA NR RUN RE SENS PIR RETR BRA Ste TR NERO Se HAND toms AES STN tN: Sei NRA AT at St NORIO Ratt te ER pean ont the en ER

 

SRR aide aan Sel einen Sear ae py tees dios as rian ese ia yh
