Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

)FFICIAL

NOCUMENTS
rh #4 S a PE r 6B OE OAD

 

 

LOAN A NUMBER 8970-CN
LOAN B NUMBER 8971-CN

Loan Agreement

(Gansu Revitalization and Innovation Project)
between
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC

OF CHINA (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank’’). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:

NOW, THEREFORE, the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:

1.01.

1.02.

2.01.

2.02.

2.03.

2.04.

2.05.

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to
and form part of this Agreement.

Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement, and the terms used in italics in this Agreement are referring to
locations on the territory of Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity.

ARTICLE II — LOAN

The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of one hundred and sixty
million and five hundred thousand Euros (€160,500,000) (the “Loan’”), out of
which:

(a) the amount of forty-four million and six hundred thousand Euros
(€44,600,000) (“Loan A”’), as such amount may be converted from time to
time through a Currency Conversion, is extended to assist in financing Part
1 of the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”); and

(b) the amount of one hundred and fifteen million and nine hundred thousand
Euros (€1 15,900,000) (““Loan B’’), as such amount may be converted from
time to time through a Currency Conversion, is extended to assist in
financing Parts 2 and 3 of the Project.

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.

The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.

The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Variable Spread or such rate as may
apply following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General
Conditions.
2.06

2.07.

2.08

3.01.

The Payment Dates are June 1 and December 1 in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.

(a) If on any given day, the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure
Limit (as said terms are defined in sub-paragraphs (b)(ii) and (b)(iii) of
this Section), the Borrower shall pay to the Bank a surcharge at the rate of
one half of one percent (0.5%) per annum of the Allocated Excess
Exposure Amount (as defined in sub-paragraph (b)(i) of this Section) for
each said day (“Exposure Surcharge”). The Exposure Surcharge (if any)
shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date.

(b) For purposes of this Section the following terms have the meanings set
forth below:

(i) “Allocated Excess Exposure Amount” means for each day during
which the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit,
the product of: (A) the total amount of said excess; and (B) the
ratio of all (or, if the Bank so determines, a portion) of the Loan
to the aggregate amount of all (or the equivalent portions) of the
loans made by the Bank to the Borrower and to other borrowers
guaranteed by the Borrower that are also subject to an exposure
surcharge, as said excess and ratio are reasonably determined from
time to time by the Bank.

(ii) “Standard Exposure Limit” means the standard limit on the
Bank’s financial exposure to the Borrower which, if exceeded,
would subject the Loan to the Exposure Surcharge, as determined
from time to time by the Bank.

(iii) | “Total Exposure” means for any given day, the Bank’s total
financial exposure to the Borrower, as reasonably determined by

the Bank.

ARTICLE II — PROJECT

_ The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this

end, the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project
Implementing Entity in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions, Schedule 2 to this Agreement and the Project Agreement.
4.01.

5.01.

5.02.

5.03.

ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the Signature Date.

ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister or a Vice Minister of Finance.

For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Borrower’s
address is:

Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe

Xicheng District

Beijing 100820

People’s Republic of China

(b) the Borrower’s Electronic Address is:
Facsimile:
(86-10) 6855-2077

For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Bank’s address
iS:

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America; and

(b) the Bank’s Electronic Address is:

Facsimile:

1-202-477-6391
AGREED as of the Signature Date.

PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

By JBN Ke |

Authorized Representative

Name: Lin Wet hua

Deputy Director — (.ererol

Title: arvtrent 9 19nd
Earonit ¥ Friroracl loo perotnor
Date: qn aro
Del ae > Lo)
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR

RECONSTRUCTION DEVELOPMENT

 
    

By
Authorized Representative

Name: LU gpm I id a

\ |
Title: Ctencetoey L- Sector Clune

Date: Daly >. #49
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description

The objectives of the Project are to increase income-generating opportunities,
improve access to infrastructure and services, and strengthen institutional capacity of
participating entities.

The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1. Increased Access to Financial Services for MSEs

Supporting private sector development, through the provision of financing for new or
existing micro and small enterprises (MSEs) engaged in the culture, tourism and creative
industries in Gansu, on a revolving basis.

Part 2. Urban-Rural Regeneration

2.1 Supporting the physical regeneration of selected historic towns and villages, through:

a) the rehabilitation of municipal services and infrastructure; and
b) the restoration of old houses and buildings of traditional style.

2.2 Supporting the development of creative industries, through:

a) the development of discovery centers and marketplaces; and
b) the development of tourism services and facilities.

Part 3. Institutional Strengthening and Global Knowledge Transfer

Supporting institutional strengthening and global knowledge transfer, through:

a) the completion of studies and the development of sustainable site management
plans, improved policies and regulations, marketing strategies, and Gansu
branding and promotion activities;

b) the provision of technical assistance, trainings and business advisory services to
communities, MSEs, participating financial institutions and local and provincial
officials;

c) the provision of support for Project management and implementation, including
compliance with environmental, social and fiduciary obligations, design institutes,
project management, construction supervision, monitoring and evaluation of the
Project impacts; and

d) dissemination of Gansu culture and tourism knowledge globally.
SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Section I. Implementation Arrangements

A. Financing Arrangements

l, For the purposes of carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make the
proceeds of the Loan available to the Project Implementing Entity, under terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including the following principal terms:

(a) The principal amount shall be made available in Euros or any other
Currency as the Loan may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion of the value of the currency or currencies so
withdrawn (such principal amount determined on the date, or respective
dates, of withdrawal from the Loan Account).

(b) The principal amount so made available shall be recovered as follows: (1)
when referring to Loan A, through a bullet repayment due on June 1, 2039;
(ii) when referring to Loan B, over a period of twenty-nine (29) years,
inclusive of a grace period of six (6) years.

(c) Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest
applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to the provisions of
Section 2.05 of this Agreement.

(d) A Commitment Charge shall be charged equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.

2| The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to: (a) manage, operate,
monitor, transfer and reconcile the proceeds of the Loan made available to it
pursuant to Section I.A.1 of this Schedule in accordance with arrangements and
procedures acceptable to the Bank; (b) take all required actions, including
provision of timely consents and approvals as may be necessary, to facilitate the
utilization of said Loan proceeds and the implementation of the Project and, to
enable the Project Implementing Entity to comply with its undertakings under the
Project Agreement; and (c) maintain all relevant records and documents related to
the Loan and the Project and provide promptly such documents and records,
including all other information related to the Loan and the Project, as may be
requested by the Borrower or the Bank from time to time.
Safeguards.

The Borrower shall take all measures necessary to comply with and enable the
Project Implementing Entity to comply with, and shall cause the Project
Implementing Entity to comply with, the provisions of Section I.C of the Schedule
to the Project Agreement.
Section II. Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation

The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to furnish to the Bank
each Project Report not later than sixty (60) days after the end of each calendar
semester, covering the calendar semester.

Section III. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A, General.

Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and
in accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the
Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to: (a) finance Eligible
Expenditures; and (b) pay each Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar premium
related to Loan A; in the amount allocated and, if applicable, up to the percentage
set forth against each Category of the following table:

   
     
  

Percentage of
Amount of Loan A Amount of Loan B Expenditures to be
Allocated Allocated financed
Category (expressed in Euros) ae in Euros) | (inclusive of Taxes)

(1) Sub-loans 44,600,000 33%
under Part 1 of the
Project

(2) Goods, works, an 115,900,000 100%

   
  

      

  

     
   
   
     
   
   
   
   
   
 
  

   
 

Incremental
Operating Costs
and Training and
Workshops under
Parts 2 and 3 for
the Project
(3) Interest Rate
Cap or _ Interest
Rate Collar
premium for Loan
A

  
   

 
 
   
   
   
 
 

non-consulting
services, and
consulting
services,
Amount due pursuant
to Section 4.05 (c) of
the General
Conditions

       
 

    

TOTAL 44,600,000 115,900,000 | we
AMOUNT
B.

2.

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A above, no withdrawal shall be made:

(a) for payments made prior to the Signature Date, except that withdrawals up
to an aggregate amount not to exceed:

(i) eight million nine hundred and twenty thousand Euros
(€8,920,000) may be made for payments made prior to this date
but on or after March 31, 2019, for Eligible Expenditures under
Category (1); and

(ii) eleven million five hundred and ninety thousand Euros
(€11,590,000) may be made for payments made prior to this date
but on or after March 31, 2019, for Eligible Expenditures under
Category (2); or

(b) under Category (1) until the On-lending Agreement has been entered into
between the Project Implementing Entity and GFHG in accordance with
the provisions of Section I.B.1(a) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement
and a Subsidiary Agreement has been entered into between GFHG and at
least one PFI in accordance with Section I.B.1(b) of the Schedule to the
Project Agreement.

The Closing Date is June 30, 2025.
-10-

SCHEDULE 3
Commitment-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule
Repayment of the principal amount of Loan A
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of Loan A in full on June 1, 2039.
Repayment of the principal amount of Loan B
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of Loan B and the

percentage of the total principal amount of Loan B payable on each Principal
Payment Date (“Installment Share’).

Principal Payment Date Installment Share

On each June 1 and December 1:
Beginning December 1, 2025
through December 1, 2047

On June 1, 2048

     
   
 

 
     

    

2.17%

2.35%

 
-ll-

APPENDIX

Definitions

“Annual Work Plan and Budget” means each of the consolidated annual work
plans and budgets for the Project prepared and approved annually in accordance
with the provisions of Section I.D.1-of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix
to the General Conditions, the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud
and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”,
dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.

“Bank’s Safeguards Policies” means the operational policies and procedures for
financing of development projects by the Bank at the date of this Agreement and
relating to Environmental Assessment, Natural Habitats, Pest Management,
Indigenous Peoples (Ethnic Minorities), Physical Cultural Resources, Involuntary
Resettlement, Forests, Safety of Dams, Projects on International Waterways, and
Projects in Disputed Areas, as published under http://policies.worldbank.org, as
well as the Environmental Health and Safety Guidelines as of the date of this
Agreement, published under www. ifc.org/ehsguidelines, to the extent that they are
applicable to the Project.

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section III.A of Schedule 2
to this Agreement.

“Co-financing” means the amount to be allocated by the PFIs as agreed with the
Project Implementing Entity and the Bank to the co-financing of activities under
Part 1 of the Project in accordance with Section I.B.1(c)(i) of the Schedule to the
Project Agreement.

“Cultural and Tourism PPMO” means the Provincial Department of Culture and
Tourism of the Project Implementing Entity, referred to in Section I.A.1(a)(ii) of
the Schedule to the Project Agreement, or any successor thereto.

“Displaced Persons” means persons who, on account of the execution of the
Project, have experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts
caused by: (a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of
shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources or
means of livelihood, whether or not such persons must move to another location;
or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and protected
areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such persons; and a
“Displaced Person” means any of such Displaced Persons.
10.

11.

12.

« 12x

“Eligible Beneficiaries” means an MSE referred to in Section I.B.1(c) of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement, eligible to receive a Sub-loan, to which:a Sub-
loan has been or is about to be extended under Part 1 of the Project.

“Environmental Assessment Executive Summary for the Project” means the
Culture and Tourism PPMO’s and the Line of Credit PPMO’s document entitled
“Environmental Assessment Executive Summary for Gansu Revitalization and
Innovation Project (P158215)” and dated December 2018, containing an executive
summary of the environmental and social base line, the environmental and social
management framework for Parts 1 and 3 of the Project, the environmental and
social assessment, including mitigation measures and monitoring plans for Part 2
of the Project; and such term includes all schedules and annexes supplemental
thereto.

“Environmental Code of Practices” means the environmental code of practices
included in the Environmental Impact Assessment Report and Environmental and
Social Management Plan for the Project.

“Environmental Impact Assessment Report and Environmental and Social
Management Plan for Part 2 of the Project” means, collectively, (i) the Culture and
Tourism PPMO’s document entitled “World Bank: Gansu Revitalization and
Innovation Project, Environment Impact Assessment” dated December 2018,
which contains an environmental and social base line including on physical
cultural resources, an analysis of alternatives and a description of impacts
(including cumulative impact) and mitigation measures during construction and
operation, as well as guidance to prepare environmental and social management
plans; and such term includes all schedules and annexes supplemental thereto; and
(11) the Culture and Tourism PPMO’s document entitled “World Bank: Gansu
Revitalization and Innovation Project, Environment Management Plan” dated
December 2018, which contains mitigation measures of environmental and social
impacts, guidance for supervision, monitoring, training, and grievance redress
mechanism; as well as an Environmental Code of Practices and a Physical Cultural
Resource Management Plan, measures to mitigate the impact of construction
works on natural habitats; and such term includes all schedules and annexes
supplemental thereto.

“Environmental and Social Management Framework for Parts 1 and 3 of the
Project” means, collectively, (1) GFHG’s document entitled ““World Bank-financed
Gansu Revitalization and Innovation Project, Finance Component, Social
Management Policy Framework” dated December 2018, which includes, a
description of social policies and guidance for their application, the due diligence
to carry out for their application and a grievance redress mechanism, including a
Resettlement Policy Framework and an Indigenous People Policy Framework, as
well as outlines to prepare resettlement action plans and ethnic minority
13.

14.

Le.

16.

17.

« 13

development plans; and such term includes all schedules and annexes
supplemental thereto; and (ii) GFHG’s document entitled “World Bank-financed
Gansu Revitalization and Innovation Project, Finance Component, Environmental
and Social Management Framework (ESMF)” dated December 2018, which
contains, a description of the typical environmental and social impacts of Sub-
projects, and guidance for Sub-project screening, determination of policies
triggered and mitigation measures, disclosure and consultation on safeguard
documents, implementation, monitoring and evaluation, grievance redress
mechanism, and capacity building, as well as a sample environmental management
plan, a resettlement policy framework and an ethnic minority development
framework; and such term includes all schedules and annexes supplemental
thereto.

“Environmental and Social Management Plan” or the acronym “ESMP” means, an
environmental and social management plan for Parts 1 and 3 of the Project,
acceptable to the Bank, prepared in accordance with the requirements of the
Environmental and Social Management Framework for Parts 1 and 3 of the Project.

“Ethnic Minority Development Framework” means the Culture and Tourism
PPMO’s document entitled “World Bank-financed Gansu Revitalization and
Innovation Project, Ethnic Development Policy Framework” and dated December
2018, containing guidance for the screening of minority population affected by the
Project and as well as for the preparation, consultation upon, disclosure and
approval of Ethnic Minority Development Plans; and such term includes all
schedules and annexes supplemental thereto.

“Ethnic Minority Development Plan” means a plan, acceptable to the Bank,
prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Ethnic Minority Development
Framework; and such term includes all schedules and annexes supplemental
thereto.

“Gansu” or “Gansu Province” means the Borrower’s province of the same name,
or any successor thereto.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project
Financing”, dated December 14, 2018.

“GFGC” means Gansu Financing Guarantee Company Limited.

“GFHG” means Gansu Financial Holding Group Company Limited.

“Incremental Operating Costs” means the reasonable costs incurred by the Project
Implementing Entity, the PPMOs and the PIUs for purposes of Project
21.

Ze.

2.

24.

2d.

26.

-14-

management and implementation based on the Annual Work Plans and Budgets
approved in advance by the Bank, on account of office rental, supplies and
consumables, utilities, bank charges, communications, mass media and printing
services, interpretation and translation services, vehicle rental, operation,
maintenance, and insurance, building and equipment maintenance, local
transportation, domestic travel, lodging, and subsistence allowances, and salaries
of contractual and temporary staff, but excluding salaries and any salary
supplements of members of the Borrower’s or the Project Implementing Entity’s
civil service.

“Indigenous People Policy Framework” means the indigenous people policy
framework included in the Environmental and Social Management Framework for
Part 1 of the Project, referred to in definition 12(i) above.

“Line of Credit PPMO” means GFHG, referred to in Section I.A.1(a)(iii) of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement, or any successor thereto.

“Loan A” means such portion of the Loan described in Section 2.01(a) of this
Agreement.

“Loan A — Operations Manual” means the manual prepared by GFHG for the
implementation of the activities under Part 1 of the Project dated April 25, 2019,
acceptable to the Bank, which includes the implementation arrangements, the flow
of funds and contractual arrangement; the terms and conditions of the Sub-loans;
the environmental and social safeguards procedures; as well as the procurement,
disbursement, reporting, audit and financial management procedures, as the same
may be revised from time to time with the prior concurrence of the Bank.

“Loan B” means such portion of the Loan described in Section 2.01(b) of this
Agreement. |

“Loan B — Project Implementation Plan” means the Project Implementing Entity’s
plan dated April 24, 2019, acceptable to the Bank, describing, among other things:
(a) the Project objective, Project activities and arrangements, acceptable to the
Bank, flow of funds of the proceeds of the Loan and agreed procedures in, inter
alia, procurement, financial management and disbursement; (b) the institutional
arrangements for the implementation of Parts 2 and 3 the Project, and the roles and
responsibilities of the entities involved in Project implementation; (c) financial
management manual and procurement manual for Parts 2 and 3 of the Project;
(d) arrangements acceptable to the Bank for social and environment safeguards
screening and mitigation; (e) steps and procedures for Project implementation; and
(f) monitoring and evaluation, reporting and information disclosure arrangements,
and the indicators and targets for purposes of monitoring and evaluation of the
27.

28.

29.

30.

c3e

De.

a.

34.

aa.

-15-

progress of the Project; as the same may be revised from time to time with the prior
concurrence of the Bank.

“Local Leading Group” means a group established to ensure effective
implementation of the Project activities within its jurisdiction, referred to in
Section I.A.1(b)(i) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement; and “Local Leading
Groups” means all such groups established for the Project.

“MSEs” means micro and small enterprises, as further defined in the MSEs
Operational Manual, duly established and operating under the laws of the
Borrower.

“On-Lending Agreement” means the agreement, referred to in Section I.B.1(a) of
the Schedule to the Project Agreement, between the Project Implementing Entity
and GFHG, as the same may be amended from time to time in accordance with the
provisions of Section I.B.1(a)(ii) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, and
such term includes all schedules and supplements to said agreement.

“On-Lending Loan A” means a financing facility extended by the Project
Implementing Entity to GFHG under the On-lending Agreement.

“Participating Financial Institution” or “PFI” means a financial institution duly
established and operating under the laws of the Borrower, acceptable to the Bank,
and selected by the Project Implementing Entity, in accordance with criteria
acceptable to the Bank, to participate in the implementation of Part 1 of the Project.

“Physical Cultural Resource Management Plan” means the physical cultural
resource management plan included in the Environmental Impact Assessment
Report and Environmental and Social Management Plan for Parts 2 and 3 of the
Project.

“PPMO” means a Provincial Project Management Office, and “PPMOs” means,
collectively, the Line of Credit PPMO and the Culture and Tourism PPMO.

“Procurement Regulations” means, for purposes of paragraph 85 of the Appendix
to the General Conditions, the “World Bank Procurement Regulations for IPF
Borrowers”, dated July 2016, revised November 2017 and August 2018.

“Project Implementation Unit” or “PIU” means a unit responsible for the
implementation of Project activities within its jurisdiction, referred to in Section
L.A.1(b)(ii) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, and “PIUs” means,
collectively, all such units.
36,

31s

38.

a.

40.

41.

-16-

“Project Implementing Entity” means the Borrower’s province of Gansu, or any
successor thereto.

“Project Leading Agency” means the Project Implementing Entity’s Provincial
Foreign Loan Administration Committee to provide overall leadership, policy,
financial, institutional and strategic guidance on Project implementation, and
referred to in Section I.A.1(a)(i) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, or any
successor thereto.

“Resettlement Action Plan” or “RAP” means either (i) the Culture and Tourism
PPMO’s document entitled “World Bank-financed Gansu Revitalization and
Innovation Project, Resettlement Action Plan” dated November 2018, which
includes analyses and guidelines on the impacts of the Project and for the design
of programs for compensation and production and livelihood restoration including
implementation arrangements and monitoring and a budget, as well as a
resettlement due diligence report of Majiayao Culture Exhibition Center and
Majiayao Site Scenic Zone; and such term includes all schedules and annexes
supplemental thereto; or (ii) a plan, acceptable to the Bank, prepared in accordance
with the requirements of the Resettlement Policy Framework; and such term
includes all schedules and annexes supplemental thereto; and “Resettlement
Action Plans” or “RAPs” means, collectively, all such documents.

“Resettlement Policy Framework for Parts 1 and 2 of the Project” or “RPF” means,
collectively, (i) the Culture and Tourism PPMO’s document entitled “World Bank-
financed Gansu Revitalization and Innovation Project, Resettlement Policy
Framework” dated December 2018, which includes an analysis of the potential for
involuntary resettlements under the Project, and guidance on the policy
requirements to implement them and for the preparation of Resettlement Action
Plans; and such term includes all schedules and annexes supplemental thereto; and
(ii) the resettlement policy framework included in the Environmental and Social
Management Framework for Part 1 of the Project, referred to in definition 12(i).

“RMB” means the Chinese Yuan Renminbi, the currency having legal tender in
the Borrower’s territory.

“Safeguards Instruments” means, collectively, (i) the Environmental Assessment
Executive Summary for the Project; (ii) the Environmental Impact Assessment
Report and Environmental and Social Management Plan for Part 2 of the Project;
(111) the Environmental and Social Management Framework for Parts 1 and 3 of
the Project as well as any Environmental and Social Management Plans which may
be prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Environmental and Social
Management Framework for Parts 1 and 3 of the Project, if any; (iv) the Social
Impact Assessment Report for the Project; (v) the Resettlement Policy Framework
for Parts 1 and 2 of the Project, as well as any Resettlement Action Plans which
42.

43.

44.

45.

46.

47.

48.

49.

-17-

may be prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Resettlement Policy
Framework for Parts 1 and 2 of the Project, if any; and (vi) the Ethnic Minority
Development Framework as well as any Ethnic Minority Development Plans
which may be prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Ethnic Minority
Development Framework, if any.

“Signature Date” means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the
Bank signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to “the
date of the Loan Agreement” in the General Conditions.

“Social Impact Assessment Report for the Project” means the Culture and Tourism
PPMO’s document entitled “World Bank-financed Gansu Revitalization and
Innovation Project, Social Assessment Report” dated December 2018, which
includes analyses of the population in the Project area (with gender desegregation),
the social impacts of the Project, the location of the cultural resources in the Project
area, and guidance for the preparation of social action plans; and such term
includes all schedules and annexes supplemental thereto.

“Sub-loan” means a financing facility extended to an Eligible Beneficiary under
Part 1 of the Project in accordance with the provisions of Section I.B.1(c)(ii) of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement.

““Sub-loan Agreement” means the agreement pursuant to which the PFIs extends a
Sub-Loan to an Eligible Beneficiary for the partial financing of its Sub-project,
referred to in Section I.B.1(c)(iii) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.

“Sub-project” means an Eligible Beneficiary’s set of activities financed in part
with a Sub-loan in accordance with the provisions of Section I.B.1(c)(ii) of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement.

“Subsidiary Agreement” means an agreement, referred to in Section I.B.1(b) of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement, between GFHG and a PFI, as the same may be
amended from time to time in accordance with the provisions of Section I.B.1(b)
(11) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, and such term includes all schedules
and supplements to said agreement.

“Subsidiary Loan” means the facility extended by GFHG to a PFI under a
Subsidiary Agreement.

“Training and Workshops” means the costs of training activities under the Project,
based on the Annual Work Plans and Budgets approved in advance by the Bank,
and attributable to seminars, workshops, and domestic and overseas training and
study tours, along with travel and subsistence allowances for training participants,
services of trainers, rental of training facilities, preparation and reproduction of
 

 

-18-

training materials, and other activities directly related to course preparation and
implementation.

 
