Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

 

 

LOAN NUMBER 9023-YF

Loan Agreement

(Competitive Agriculture Project)

between
REPUBLIC OF SERBIA
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between REPUBLIC OF SERBIA
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (‘Bank’). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01. The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to
and form part of this Agreement.

1.02. Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.

ARTICLE II — LOAN

2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of forty-five million eight
hundred thousand Euros, (EUR 45,800,000), as such amount may be converted
from time to time through a Currency Conversion (“Loan”), to assist in financing
the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”).

2.02. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

2.03. The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.

2.04. The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.

2.05. The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Fixed Spread or such rate as may
apply following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General
Conditions.

2.06. The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.

2.07. The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.

ARTICLE Il] — PROJECT

3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower, through MAFWM, with the assistance of DAP for Part 1.2 of
4.01.

5.01.

5.02.

DD.

43.

the Project, shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and eighty (180) days after the
Signature Date.

ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

The Borrower’s Representative, who, inter alia, may agree to modification of the
provisions of this Agreement on behalf of the Borrower through exchange of letters
(unless otherwise determined by the Borrower and the Bank), is its Minister of
Finance.

For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Borrower's
address is:

Ministry of Finance

20 Kneza Milosa St.
11000 Belgrade
Republic of Serbia; and

(b) the Borrower’s Electronic Address is:

Facsimile: E-mail:
(381-11) 3618-961 kabinet @mfin.gov.rs

For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Bank’s address
is:

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America; and

(b) the Bank’s Electronic Address is:
Telex: Facsimile: E-mail:

248423(MCI) or _—_—1-202-477-6391 sndegwa @worldbank.org
64145(MCI)
= Be

AGREED and signed in English as of the Signature Date.

    
 

  
         

REPUBLIC OF SERBIA
By
ei Representative

Name: / oe, /S, A MAL)

Title: LY KS ISTER OF FIVMAMCE

Date: LE CE/NBER JG, IO/9

—-
~ hb

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DE ENT
By

orized Representative

STEPHEN NOSEW A

Title: CoVUNTRY MANAGER
Date: DEecEM BER v Zo 43

Name:
_4-

SCHEDULE 1

Project Description

The objective of the Project is to improve agri-food market linkages for Targeted
Beneficiaries.

The Project consists of the following parts:

Part 1: Improving the Value-Added of Agriculture

Improve the economic performance on- and off-farm of Targeted Beneficiaries, through:

1.1

1.2

Strengthening the access to agricultural advisory and business development
services, including, inter alia: (a) the provision of technical assistance to Targeted
Beneficiaries for the formulation and implementation of productive investments;
and (b) the design and implementation of a communication strategy for MAFWM
aimed at raising awareness about the Project to stimulate broad-based participation
of stakeholders.

Facilitating access to finance for productive investments, including, inter alia:
(a) the provision of Matching Grants to Targeted Beneficiaries to finance capital
investment, working capital, technical assistance and/or Training for improving
their productive and entrepreneurial capacity and performance; and (b) the
carrying out of a feasibility study to assess demand for a public guarantee fund for
agricultural loans as a long-term de-risking option.

Part 2: Improving the Capacity of MAFWM to Support Modern Agriculture

Improve the capacity of MAFWM and other related public agencies to enable improved
sector performance through evidence-based policy making and provision of public goods,
such as information delivery systems and open data platforms, including:

a

2.2

The modernization of MAFWM information systems and the strengthening of
MAFWWM’s decision-making capacity, including, inter alia: (a) the provision of
technical assistance to: (i) develop a MAFWM ICT strategy; (ii) improve the
coordination within and across existing information systems relevant to
agriculture; and (iii) enhance the delivery of information for decision making at
different levels; and (b) the acquisition of hardware and software to improve the
scope, functionality and compatibility of information systems and establish digital
data collection and processing of current paper-based processes in agriculture.

Improving the access to information to all sector stakeholders through the
establishment of an open, public information system to pull together all relevant
_5-

data, including the upgraded and reengineered applications developed under
Part 2.1 of the Project.

Part 3: Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation
Support the operation of the PMT and the carrying out of Project monitoring activities,

including, inter alia, the carrying out of: (a) a comprehensive baseline study; (b) a mid-term
review report; and (c) a final impact assessment of Project investments.
-6-

SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Section I. Implementation Arrangements

A.

i.

Institutional Arrangements

Without limitation to the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall:

(a) establish and maintain throughout Project implementation, with
composition, resources, terms of reference, and functions acceptable to the
Bank a Project management team within DAP (PMT), to be responsible
for: (i) the overall coordination of all Project implementation activities;
(ii) ensuring that the requirements, criteria, policies, procedures, and
organizational arrangements set forth in the Project Operational Manual
(POM) are applied in carrying out the Project; (iii) preparation of all
Project implementation documents, including Project progress reports;
and (iv) monitoring and evaluation of the Project; and

(b) maintain throughout Project implementation, with composition, resources,
terms of reference, and functions acceptable to the Bank a Central
Fiduciary Unit (CFU), within MoF, to be responsible for the procurement
and financial management of the Project, as detailed in the POM.

Not later than six months after the Effective Date, the Borrower, through
MAFWM, shall establish and thereafter maintain throughout Project
implementation a steering committee (Steering Committee) with terms of
reference and functions acceptable to the Bank.

Project Operational Manual

The Borrower, through the PMT and CFU, shall carry out the Project in accordance
with the provisions of a manual (POM), in a manner and with contents acceptable
to the Bank, including inter alia: (a) the indicators to be used in the monitoring
and evaluation of the Project; (b) the procedures for Project monitoring,
supervision and evaluation, including the format and content of the Project
Reports; (c) the procurement and financial management procedures; and (d) the
Grants Operational Manual (GOM), which shall include, inter alia: (i) the
eligibility criteria and selection procedures to select Targeted Beneficiaries and
Sub-projects, including the list of activities not eligible for financing under the
Loan; (ii) the rules of operation for the provision of Matching Grants, including,
inter alia, the amounts of the Matching Grants and the Targeted Beneficiary’s
contribution for the respective Sub-project, including the required percentage of
_7-

financing from commercial banks; and (iii) any rule books to be issued by
MAFWM,, to describe in detail the implementation of Matching Grants.

The Borrower, through MAFWM, shall ensure that the provisions of each rule
book, referred in paragraph 1 (d)(iii) above, shall be consistent with the provisions
of the GOM. In case of any conflict between the terms of the GOM and those of
a relevant rule book, the terms of the GOM shall prevail.

Except as the Bank may otherwise agree in writing, the Borrower shall not
abrogate, amend, suspend, waive, or otherwise fail to enforce the POM or any
provision thereof.

In case of any conflict between the terms of the POM and those of this Agreement,
the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.

Matching Grants

The Borrower, through MAFWM and DAP, shall make Matching Grants to
Targeted Beneficiaries in accordance with eligibility criteria and procedures
acceptable to the Bank and as set forth in the POM and GOM.

The Borrower, through MAFWM and DAP, shall make each Matching Grant
under a Grant Agreement with the respective Targeted Beneficiary on terms and
conditions approved by the Bank, which shall include the following:

The Borrower, through MAFWM and DAP, shall obtain rights adequate
to protect its interests and those of the Bank, including the right to:
(i) suspend or terminate the right of the Targeted Beneficiary to use the
proceeds of the Matching Grant or obtain a refund of all or any part of the
amount of the Matching Grant then withdrawn, upon the Targeted
Beneficiary’s failure to perform any of its obligations under the Grant
Agreement; and (ii) require each Targeted Beneficiary to: (A) carry out
its Sub-project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with
sound technical, economic, financial, managerial, environmental and
social standards and practices satisfactory to the Bank, including in
accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines
applicable to recipients of loan proceeds other than the Borrower;
(B) provide, promptly as needed, the resources required for the purpose;
(C) procure the goods, works and services to be financed out of the
Matching Grant in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement,
(D) maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and
evaluate in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the progress
of the Sub-project and the achievement of its objectives; (E) (1) maintain
a financial management system and prepare financial statements in
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to
_8-

the Bank, both in a manner adequate to reflect the operations, resources
and expenditures related to the Sub-project; and (2) at the Bank’s or the
Borrower’s request, have such financial statements audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with
consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, and
promptly furnish the statements as so audited to the Borrower and the
Bank; (F) enable the Borrower and the Bank to inspect the Sub-project, its
operation and any relevant records and documents; and (G) prepare and
furnish to the Borrower and the Bank all such information as the Borrower
or the Bank shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing.

The Borrower, through MAFWM and DAP, shall exercise its rights under each
Grant Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and
the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower, through MAFWM, shall not assign, amend,
abrogate or waive any Grant Agreement or any of its provisions.

Environmental and Social Standards

The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
Environmental and Social Standards, in a manner acceptable to the Bank.

Without limitation upon paragraph | above, the Borrower shall ensure that the
Project is implemented in accordance with the Environmental and Social
Commitment Plan (“ESCP”’), in a manner acceptable to the Bank. To this end, the
Borrower shall ensure that:

(a) the measures and actions specified in the ESCP are implemented with due
diligence and efficiency, and as further specified in the ESCP;

(b) sufficient funds are available to cover the costs of implementing the ESCP;

(c) policies, procedures and qualified staff are maintained to enable it to
implement the ESCP, as further specified in the ESCP; and

(d) the ESCP or any provision thereof, is not amended, revised or waived,
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree in writing and the Borrower has,

thereafter, disclosed the revised ESCP.

In case of any inconsistencies between the ESCP and the provisions of this
Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.

The Borrower shall:
_Q-

(a) take all measures necessary on its part to collect, compile, and furnish to
the Bank through regular reports, with the frequency specified in the
ESCP, and promptly in a separate report or reports, if so requested by the
Bank, information on the status of compliance with the ESCP, all such
reports in form and substance acceptable to the Bank, setting out, inter
alia: (i) the status of implementation of the ESCP; (ii) conditions, if any,
which interfere or threaten to interfere with the implementation of the
ESCP; and (iii) corrective and preventive measures taken or required to be
taken to address such conditions; and

(b) promptly notify the Bank of any incident or accident related to or having
an impact on the Project which has, or is likely to have, a significant
adverse effect on the environment, the affected communities, the public or
workers, in accordance with the ESCP, the instruments referenced therein
and the Environmental and Social Standards.

The Borrower shall maintain and publicize the availability of a grievance
mechanism, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, to hear and determine
fairly and in good faith all complaints raised in relation to the Project, and take all
measures necessary to implement the determinations made by such mechanism in
a manner satisfactory to the Bank.

Section II. Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation

The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank each Project Report not later than one
month after the end of each calendar semester, covering the calendar semester.

Section III. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

A.

General

Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and
in accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the
Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to: (a) finance Eligible
Expenditures; and (b) pay the Front-end Fee; in the amount allocated and, if
applicable, up to the percentage set forth against each Category of the following
table:
-10-

 
 
  
 

 
 
  
 

Amount of the Loan
Allocated
(expressed in EUR)

7,500,000
7,885,500
30,300,000

(4) Front-end Fee 114,500

TOTAL AMOUNT 45,800,000

For the purpose of this table, the custom duties and value added tax for the
importation and supply of goods, works and non-consulting services, within the
Borrower’s territory and for the purpose of the implementation of the Project, shall not be
financed out of Loan proceeds. The Borrower confirms that the importation and supply of
goods, works and non-consulting services, within the Borrower’s territory and for the
purpose of the implementation of the Project, shall be exempted from customs duties and
value added tax.

 
   

  

Percentage of Expenditures

Category to be financed

   
 
 
  

  

  
 

 
  

(1) Goods, works, non-
consulting services for the
Project.

100% (inclusive of Taxes
other than Value Added Tax
and Customs Duties)

   
     
 
  

   

(2) Consulting services,
Training and Operational
Costs for the Project

   
   

  
 
  
  

  

100% (inclusive of Taxes)

 
 
  

  
  
 

100% of the amounts
disbursed under Matching
Grants (inclusive of Taxes)

 

(3) Matching Grants

 
      

  
   

Amount payable pursuant to
Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions

     
   

   

   

 
  

     

 

 

B. Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

l. Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A above, no withdrawal shall be made for
payments made prior to the Signature Date.

2. The Closing Date is December 31, 2024.
-1]1-

SCHEDULE 3
Commitment-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage
of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date
(“Installment Share’).

Level Principal Repayments

Principal Payment Date Installment Share

On each May 15 and November 15

Beginning May 15, 2023
through May 15, 2031

On November 15, 2031 5.48%

   
   

    
  

  

5.56%

    
    

 
.

APPENDIX

Definitions

hs

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix
to the General Conditions, the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud
and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”,
dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IIA of Schedule 2
to this Agreement.

“DAP” means the Directorate for Agrarian Payments within MAFWM, established
pursuant to the Borrower’s Law on Agriculture and Rural Development (Official
Gazette RS No. 41/2009, 10/2013 and 101/2016), or its successor thereto.

“Environmental and Social Commitment Plan” or the acronym ““ESCP” means the
Borrower’s environmental and social commitment plan, acceptable to the Bank,
dated October 29, 2019, which sets out a summary of the material measures and
actions to address the potential environmental and social risks and impacts of the
Project, including the timing of the actions and measures, institutional, staffing,
training, monitoring and reporting arrangements, and any instruments to be
prepared thereunder; as the ESCP may be revised from time to time, with prior
written agreement of the Bank, and such term includes any annexes or schedules
to such plan.

“Environmental and Social Standards” means, collectively: (i) “Environmental
and Social Standard 1: Assessment and Management of Environmental and Social
Risks and Impacts”; (ii) “Environmental and Social Standard 2: Labor and
Working Conditions”; (iii) “Environmental and Social Standard 3: Resource
Efficiency and Pollution Prevention and Management”; (iv) “Environmental and
Social Standard 4: Community Health and Safety”; (v) “Environmental and Social
Standard 5: Land Acquisition, Restrictions on Land Use and Involuntary
Resettlement”; (vi) “Environmental and Social Standard 6: Biodiversity
Conservation and Sustainable Management of Living Natural Resources”;
(vii) “Environmental and Social Standard 7: Indigenous Peoples/Sub-Saharan
Historically Underserved Traditional Local Communities”; (viii) “Environmental
and Social Standard 8: Cultural Heritage”; (ix) “Environmental and Social
Standard 9: Financial Intermediaries”; (x) “Environmental and Social Standard 10:
Stakeholder Engagement and Information Disclosure”: effective on October bes

2018, as published by the Bank at https://www.worldbank.org/en/projects-

operations/environmental-and-social-framework.

 
10.

-13-

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project
Financing”, dated December 14, 2018.

“Grant Agreement” means MAFWM’s funding decision (Resenje), referred to in
Section I.C.2 of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement.

“Grant Operational Manual” or “OM” means the manual referred to in
Section I.B.1(d) of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement.

“MAFWM” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water
Management, or any successor thereto.

“Matching Grant” means a grant to be awarded to a Targeted Beneficiary for the
partial financing of a Sub-project.

“Operating Costs” means the reasonable and incremental expenditures incurred by
MAFWM, DAP and CFU, on account of the Project implementation, including,
inter alia, expenditures for office supplies and other consumables, utilities,
communication tools, advertisement fees, translation and interpretation services,
car rental and fuel costs, office rental and maintenance, moving expenses,
equipment insurance, maintenance and repair, printing and publications, salaries,
travel per diem allowances and accommodation costs for MAFWM, DAP and CFU
staff, including taxes and social contributions but excluding salaries for the
Borrower's civil servants.

“PMT” means the Project management team referred to in Section I.A.1(a) of
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement.

“Procurement Regulations” means, for purposes of paragraph 85 of the Appendix
to the General Conditions, the “World Bank Procurement Regulations for IPF
Borrowers”, dated July 2016, revised November 2017 and August 2018.

“Producer Groups” means cooperative and farmer associations, legally constituted
in accordance to the Borrower’s applicable legal framework.

“Project Operational Manual” or “POM” means the manual referred to in
Section I.B.1 of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement.

“Signature Date” means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the
Bank signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to “the
date of the Loan Agreement” in the General Conditions.

“SMEs” means small and medium enterprises.
18.

19.

20.

mls

-14-

“Steering Committee” means the committee referred to in Section I.A.2 of
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement.

“Sub-project” means any of the productive investments referred to in Part 1.2 (a)
of the Project.

“Targeted Beneficiary” means the Borrower’s small and medium size agricultural
producers, Producer Groups and SMEs, which meet the eligibility criteria set forth
in the POM and GOM to receive Support under the Project; and “Targeted
Beneficiaries” means more than one Targeted Beneficiary.

“Training” means the reasonable costs, as shall have been approved by the Bank,
for training and workshops conducted under the Project, including tuition, travel
and subsistence costs for training and workshop participants, costs associated with
securing the services of trainers and workshop speakers, rental of training and
workshop facilities, preparation and reproduction of training and workshop
materials, and other costs directly related to training course and workshop
preparation and implementation (but excluding goods and consultants’ services).
