Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized —

 

OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

 

 

LOAN NUMBER 8940-IN

Loan Agreement

(Uttar Pradesh Core Road Network Development Project)

between
INDIA
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between INDIA (“Borrower”) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”). The
Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01. The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to and form
part of this Agreement.

1.02. Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have

the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.

ARTICLE If — LOAN

2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of four hundred million United States
Dollars (USD 400,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through
a Currency Conversion (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1
to this Agreement (“Project”). |

2.02. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section III of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

2.03. The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.

2.04. The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.

2.05. The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Variable Spread or such rate as may apply
following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General Conditions.

2.06. (a) If on any given day, the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit (as
said terms are defined in sub-paragraphs (b)(ii) and (b)(iii) of this Section), the Borrower
shall pay to the Bank a surcharge at the rate of one half of one percent (0.5%) per annum
of the Allocated Excess Exposure Amount (as defined in sub-paragraph (b)(i) of this
Section) for each said day (“Exposure Surcharge”). The Exposure Surcharge (if any) shall
be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date.

(b) For purposes of this Section the following terms have the meanings set forth below:

(1) “Allocated Excess Exposure Amount” means for each day during which
the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit, the product of: (A) the
total amount of said excess; and (B) the ratio of all (or, if the Bank so determines,
a portion) of the Loan to the aggregate amount of all (or the equivalent portions)
of the loans made by the Bank to the Borrower and to other borrowers guaranteed

 

i
j
i
}

 

*
PR ITUY RS AR AMG A BOSC PRR ORES ART RT
2.07.

2.08.

3.0L.

4.01.

4.02.

5.01.

6.01.

:,

by the Borrower that are also subject to an exposure surcharge, as said excess and
ratio are reasonably determined from time to time by the Bank.

(ii) “Standard Exposure Limit” means the standard limit on the Bank’s
financial exposure to the Borrower which, if exceeded, would subject the Loan to
the Exposure Surcharge, as determined from time to time by the Bank.

(iii) | “Total Exposure” means for any given day, the Bank’s total financial
exposure to the Borrower, as reasonably determined by the Bank.

The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.

ARTICLE II — PROJECT

The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project Implementing Entity in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and the Project Agreement.

ARTICLE IV —REMEDIES OF THE BANK

The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that the UPHP
Legal Framework has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to:
(i) affect materially and adversely the ability of the UPHP to carry out its envisioned
functions under Component 3 of the Project; or (ii) expand such functions to include
regular policing and/or criminal investigation activities. For avoidance of doubt, in the
event that the suspension remedy being triggered, the Bank reserves the right to decide
whether such suspension shall be partial (i.e. affecting disbursement for specific activities
and/or components) or total (i.e. affecting the entirety of the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance),
in consideration to the relevant circumstances triggering such remedy.

The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that the event
specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is not rectified, in a manner and
substance satisfactory to the Bank, within sixty (60) day of the Bank’s notification to that
effect.

ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the Signature Date.
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
The Borrower’s Representative is any of the following officials acting severally: The
Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary or Under

Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs of the Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower.

 
6.02. For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:

(a) the Borrower’s address is:

Secretary
Department of Economic Affairs

Ministry of Finance, Government of India
North Block
New Delhi 110001, India; and
(b) the Borrower’s Electronic Address is:
Facsimile: E-mail:
91-11-2309 4405 secy-dea@nic.in
6.03. For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) the Bank’s address is:
{International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America; and
(b) the Bank’s Electronic Address is:

Telex: Facsimile:

248423(MCD or 1-202-477-6391
64145(MCTI)

AOL LEO LE SRNL IT eh RRNA ARP AEP IED tetr NR NS Ip etree Rete HM enn ein escent

AGREED as of the Signature Date.

11 RRR SOR

By

   

uthorized Representative
Name: SAMEEL KUKTAR KHTATLE

Title: PABINNONAR SEc#He ney

Date: 2*P4ER #1 2Ol7
ee

 

SP ee ee eee
ES eae ete spent scat Det ee ante ea aes

Ss EE ad Bi Sl NS i a a iN a SEN ee nineteen Wnt ines eee i

 

“ERE SSSR A I 2 at i ecg a en peuple ce iced terete hone bee hasan dies ee sees: 5
PRs Boas ln PRY raat i BOE dart a Ei fe Fn aN eu a il Se as
al

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By

Authorized Representative

Name: JUNAIGB KAMA PHIM AA |

Title: COUNTRY BDIREc7DK sasb/A !
Bate _ eee ee

 
SCHEDULE 1

Project Description

The objectives of the Project are: (i) to build capacity for results-focused road safety
management in Uttar Pradesh; and (ii) to improve traffic flows and safety for all roads users on
selected corridors of the state’s Core Road Network.

The Project consists of the following parts:
Component 1: Network Improvement

Strengthening pavement, upgrading and widening of approximately 500 km of high
priority state highway corridors of the Core Road Network, including: (a) providing road
safety enhancement features; (f) ensuring proper and timely road maintenance for at least
a five (5S) year period post construction; and (g) setting up a web-based and integrated
project management information system.

_ Component 2: Institutional Strengthening of PWD

Strengthening the institutional capabilities of PWD in order to Strengthen its asset
management practices and the planning and prioritization of investments using scientific
approaches, through: (a) the operationalization of a road asset management system
integrate with a geographic information system database; (b) the strengthening of the
quality management system, developing a comprehensive quality management policy,
testing protocols, institutional arrangements and allocation of responsibilities therefor; and
(c) the provision of training to PWD staff on, inter alia, contract management, and social
and environmental safeguards.

Component 3: Road Safety

(a) Road Safety Initiative by the HD. Establishing the UPHP to implement proactive,
highly visible, general deterrence of trauma-promoting offences and enforcement of
traffic regulation, in at least two (2) high-risk highway corridors, including: (i) social
marketing of the UPHP mandate and operation; (ii) monitoring and evaluation of road
safety performance within the selected corridors; (iii) state-wide implementation of a
toad crash database and analysis system; and (iv) training on, inter alia, first-aid,
trauma care, crash attendance as first responders, and traffic laws enforcement,
including international exposure visits and knowledge exchange.

(b) Road Safety Initiatives by the TD: Strengthening the institutional capacity of the TD as
a nodal agency for road safety within Uttar Pradesh, by: (i) providing technical
assistance to the RSC for the carrying out of road safety management, the development
of the road safety strategy and action plans consistent with the State Road Safety
Policy; (ii) carrying out state-wide media campaigns to promote the State Roads Safety
Policy; (iii) strengthening the commercial driver training and certification including
upgradation of a driver training institute on training aspects; (iv) developing optimal
designs for vehicle testing stations and establishing up to five (5) such stations: (v)

SEHR YRS SR ER pec nea SESE Uh RT ASN GIA IH AS SS RRR LO ET SS Sn REN TES UNCER BR LANES

SE AR A ile RES BEL Acts ESO ERR DD PLE AI in ERIE YE SNEE WO YES Se Re FS LS Ta SST SA NE RPA el GOLD Bat SNE Mb iets SFA SAINTS aS aR SEN EATS Swe

MDA PERS A SERS OTE} rhe Be

SFE SPADA GRE Es
exploring potential private sector engagement in vehicles inspection and testing; (vi)
training TD’s staff on road safety management, data analysis, and the preparation,
implementation and monitoring of a road safety strategy and action plans, including
international exposure visits and knowledge exchange.

(c) Road Safety Initiatives by the PWD: Improving the safety of state highway network
and strengthening the institutional capacity of PWD in roads safety by: (i) designing,
implementing and evaluating a state-wide program of cost-effective road safety
engineering measures on the Core Road Network; (ii) carrying out research and
evaluating the effectiveness of safety engineering improvements in the roads network;
and (iii) strengthening the capabilities of the RSD through the provision of technical
assistance and staff training, including international exposure visits and knowledge
exchange, in order to mainstream road safety into the road design, operation and
maintenance practices of PWD.

Component 4: Contingency Emergency Response

Providing immediate response to an Eligible Crisis or Emergency, as needed

 

pia Nai Raa iy aye Ree RSE ERT Plt bi SS OMS ee pease PRP Se Se Serre Fs ee Parent Sear eee a hee ee, eS Fee ee See ee ee Ce oe ee eS eS ee eee ae ee ee = Ped th (eRe ee eee eee eT Re Nes te ape eee ee x
al 3 aan a - eee eens ae Oe ee ee ee eee " ae re ee ee nate Dee Te 7 Pere ates Sa Tete : . + = 3 =—s os = eer te Pet Nee ie SPOR RET be EL ose eh OF ee py erage ee =
PE AP NER TS ROE Raed ga te Cae eee ¥. aes pce en o Pe es aie = peat § : = aa > ed tae ee Poi tee ame nes Pon en aed gee Fee eee Cte
: Pisacrts OMe re z + f f E ‘ 2 i 4 E as PETIA SE ae ee ae ee

 
SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Section I. Implementation Arrangements

A. On-lending Arrangements.

1. To facilitate the Project Implementing Entity’s carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall
make the proceeds of the Loan available to the Project Implementing Entity in accordance
with the Borrower’s standard arrangements for development assistance to the States of
India.

a Notwithstanding paragraph | above, in the event that any provision of this Agreement,
including the instructions that the Bank shall have specified by notice to the Borrower
pursuant to Section 2.01(b) of the General Condition (including the Disbursement and
Financial Information letter), were to be found inconsistent with the Borrower’s standard
arrangements for development assistance to the States of India, the provisions of this
Agreement and related instructions shall prevail.

3. The Borrower shall at all times protect its own interests and the interests of the Bank to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan.

Section II. Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

The Borrower shall ensure that the Project Implementing Entity furnishes to the Bank each
Project Report not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter,
covering the calendar quarter.

Section III. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

 

A. General.

Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and in
accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the Borrower may
withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to: (a) finance Eligible Expenditures; and (b) pay: (i)
the Front-end Fee; and (ii) each Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar premium; in the
amount allocated and, if applicable, up to the percentage set forth against each Category of
the following table:

LEILA EEE LIER ELE AD LE EIEN ETE IED ETE LT ELIE OTM RIE A LALLA DAILIES BRE EEL BLES ED TELE E IIE DOT LE DELLELEG NEL AES ERIE D VELL ESLER AATF Rot ES GLEE NR ATO ee EINE

 

fs
 

-8-

Category Amount of the Percentage of
Loan Expenditures to be

Allocated financed
(expressed in (inclusive of Taxes)

USD)

Incremental Operating Costs for the Project

35,000,000 100%
under Sub-component 3(c) of the Project
Emergency Expenditures for the CER
Component (i.e. Component 4 of the 100%
Project)

Amount payable
pursuant to Section 2.03

(6) Front-end Fee 1,000,000 of this Agreement in
Section 4.05 (c) of the

accordance with Section
2.07 (b) of the General
Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar
— General Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 400,000,000 |

Conditions
B. Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.

  

    

   

Goods, works, non-consulting services,
consultants’ services, Training and

Incremental Operating Costs for the Project
under Components 1 and 2 of the Project

 
 
     

(2) Goods, works, non-consulting services,
consultants’ services, Training and

Incremental Operating Costs for the Project
under Sub-component 3(a) of the Project

 
     
  
 

    

Goods, works, non-consulting services,
consultants’ services, Training and

Incremental Operating Costs for the Project
under Sub-component 3(b) of the Project

 
   
    

(4) Goods, works, non-consulting services,
consultants’ services, Training and

    
     

 

     

Amount due pursuant to

 

l. Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A above, no withdrawal shall be made:

(a) for payments made prior to the Signature Date, except that withdrawals up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed eighty million United States dollars (USD
80,000,000) may be made for payments made prior to the Signature Date but on or
after April 1, 2018 for Eligible Expenditures under Categories (1), (2) and (3); or

eipemeoaetvers

 

GRE
 

Be

(b) under Category (2), unless and until the Project Implementing Entity has:

(i)

(ii)

fully staffed the HD-PIU, in a manner and substance satisfactory to the
Bank; and

duly established the UPHP, within the Traffic Police Directorate of the
HD, with a clear mandate, functions/powers and limitations thereto,
structured on the basis of a general deterrence model of trauma-promoting
vehicular offences, including comprehensive governance arrangements
such as: (A) separate chain of command; (B) own and adequate budgetary
allocations; (C) own and adequate staff and equipment, with clear and
distinctive identification/logos; and (D) a communications or general
public liaison/ombuds(wo)man office responsible for UPHP’s own
grievance mechanism and the outreach/communication strategy with the
general public; all in a manner and substance satisfactory to the Bank.

(c) under Category (4), unless and until the Bank is satisfied, and has notified the
Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity of its satisfaction, that all of the
following conditions have been met:

(i)

(il)

(iii)

(iv)

the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity have determined that
an Eligible Crisis or Emergency has occurred, have furnished to the Bank
a request to include certain activities in the CER Component in order to
respond to said Eligible Crisis or Emergency, and the Bank has agreed
with such determination, accepted said request, and notified the Borrower
and the Project Implementing Entity thereof:

the Project Implementing Entity has prepared and disclosed all safeguard
instruments, acceptable to the Bank, required for said activities, and has
implemented any actions which are required to be taken under said
instruments all in accordance with the provisions of Section I.F.3(b) of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement;

the Project Implementing Entity has provided sufficient evidence
satisfactory to the Bank, that the Coordinating Authority has adequate staff
and resources in accordance with the provision of Section I.F.2 of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement, for the purposes of said activities; and

the Project Implementing Entity has adopted a CER Operations Manual in
form, substance and manner acceptable to the Bank and the provisions of
the CER Operations Manual remain —or have been updated in accordance
with the provisions of Section I.F.1 of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement, so as to be— appropriate for the inclusion and implementation
of said activities under the respective CER Component.

2. The Closing Date is June 30, 2025.

FRR RS RNR eis SHER SRI Pe SRT a len NE A ES NS YR EERE NERS MC a NE

 

NEE RE TIEE ET TIEL SS ERLE LET DI ETOP L LAELIA LENS LEYTE ETE INI ELLER BENE NED EAE L LENE SE BLSED Ne LEBER RE RAL NG LUNAS EMEP I AS NEE NRE ERD ENERO WONT
-10-

SCHEDULE 3
Commitment-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage of the
total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date (“Installment Share”).

     
    
   

Level Principal Repayments’
On each June 15 and December 15
Beginning June 15, 2025
through June 15, 2048

On December 15, 2048 2.24%

  

     
   
   

2.08%

 

' The determination of the principal amounts of the Loan repayable on each Principal Payment Date is made
in accordance with Section 3.03 of the General Conditions.

 

BRN aa eS CRIA DH BUSS SERGE ES WS aI IN RN aA AENEAN TRONS PGB OE NAR TS ee pe NG RA HS EEA TEA Ore LI Ie ae eS aoa
FI.

APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
I. “Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix to the

General Conditions, the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and Corruption
in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants,” dated October 15,
2006 and revised in July 1 2016.

2. “Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section II.A of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.

3: “CER Component” means Component 4 of the Project, as described in Schedule | to this
Agreement.

4. “CER Operations Manual” means the immediate response mechanism operations manuals

referred to in Section I.F.1 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, acceptable to the
Bank to be adopted by the Project Implementing Entity for the implementation of the CER
Component, in accordance with the provision of said Section.

5. “Component” means each of the four parts | through 4 (components) in which the Project
is divided as per the description contained in Schedule | to this Agreement, and entitled
“Component 1: Network Improvement;” “Component 2: Institutional Strengthening of
PWD;” “Component 3: Road Safety;” and “Component 4: Contingency Emergency
Response.”

6. “Coordinating Authority” means the entity or entities designated by the Project
Implementing Entity in the CER Operations Manual, and approved by the Bank, pursuant
to Sections LE.1 and LE.2 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, which entity/ies shall
be responsible for coordinating the implementation of the CER Component.

vy “Core Road Network” means the Project Implementing Entity’s 24,095 km of strategic
road network comprising all national highways running through the state, as well as
virtually all state highways (98%), the majority (56%) of the state’s major district roads,
and ten percent (10%) of other district roads, as define in the SCRNMP.

8. “Displaced Persons” means persons who, on account of the execution of the Project, have

experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts caused by: (a) the

‘ involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets or

access to assets; or (i11) loss of income sources or means of livelihood, whether or not such

persons must move to another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally

‘ designated parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impact on the livelihoods of such
persons.

9. “EAPD” means the Project Implementing Entity’s Department of Externally Aided
Projects, or any successor thereto.

10. “Eligible Crisis or Emergency” means an event, associated with a natural or man-made
crisis or disaster, that has caused, or is likely to imminently cause, a major adverse
economic and/or social impact to either the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity.

 

 

AEE PERTTI A GHEE AE AS Sh LOTS NELLIE HLS LIM BRAT ILSEO SEALE PRIS AEE ESE AP PEGE aS
Tepe ; - ae aired
3.

16.

af

“Emergency Expenditures” means any of the eligible expenditures set forth in the CER
Operations Manual, in accordance with the provision of Section I.F.1 of the Schedule to
the Project Agreement, which are required for the activities described in such manual to be
financed under the said CER Component.

“EMP” means each of the environmental management plans prepared, or to be prepared,
by the Project Implementing Entity in a manner and substance satisfactory to the Bank
pursuant to the provision of the ESMF, and disclosed, or to be disclosed, in-country and
on the Bank’s website, setting forth the measures to be taken during the implementation
and operation of the relevant activities/assets financed under the Project in order to avoid,
minimize, mitigate or offset adverse environmental and social impacts (including health
and safety issues), or to reduce them to acceptable levels, together with adequate budget,
institutional, monitoring and reporting arrangements capable of ensuring proper
implementation of, and regular feedback on compliance with, its terms, as such plan may
be amended from time to time with the prior written concurrence of the Bank.

_ “ESDRC” means the environmental and social development and resettlement cell,

established within the PWD-PIU pursuant to Government Order 2102 EG/23-5-07-4
EG/2001, dated October 5, 2007, and referred to in Section I.A.2(f) of the Schedule to the
Project Agreement.

“ESMF” means environmental and social management framework prepared and adopted
by the Project Implementing Entity, disclosed in-country on November 15, 2018, and at
the Bank’s website on November 16, 2018, setting forth the guiding principles, acceptable
standards and procedures (including resettlement entitlements and _ principles,
organizational arrangements, consultation protocols, budgetary allocations and design
criteria) for: (a) the screening of Project activities to their potential adverse environmental
and social impacts (including impacts on natural habitat, forests, and physical cultural
resources); and (b) the preparation, whenever required, of the relevant EMP(s), RAP(s) and
TPDP(s), as such framework may be amended from time to time with the prior written
concurrence of the Bank.

“FD” means the Project Implementing Entity’s Finance Department, or any successor
thereto.

“GAP” means each of the gender action plan prepared, or to be prepared, and adopted by
the Project Implementing Entity, in a manner and substance satisfactory to the Bank,
pursuant to the provisions of the ESMF, and disclosed, or to be disclosed, in-country and
on the Bank’s website, setting forth: (a) gender equality and social inclusion actions to: (i)
ensure equal participation of women and men in the benefits derived from the Project,
without discrimination; (11) enhance women outreach; and (iii) mitigate the risks of gender-
based violence and sexual exploitation and abuse; and (b) the measures to be taken to
offset, reduce or mitigate any adverse impact of Project activities on women, including
measures that endeavor to prevent and respond to gender-based violence and sexual
exploitation and abuse; as such plan may be amended from time to time with the prior
written concurrence of the Bank.
18.

19,

20.

21,

22.

24.

sD:

26.

. Ne — : semen ee . SAO Tite ENE LED SG DME NAA PNG Ae NN HRS CAE th DRG 08 Sem Ta Ea AIS PRG IRI ae Fi AI ITT ln pA LGR BHR Ree ig RL eh PSE in pane GSR a aE AL
SE RE ao tetas aNd Ea Ha LEI i Aad RR gS atm Cn a SARC a MAME CaN RN A 2

ube.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project Financing”, dated December
14, 2018.

“GRCs” means the grievance redress cells to be established by the Project Implementing
Entity pursuant to Section I.D.6 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.

“GRM” means the grievance processing mechanism to be established by the Project
Implementing Entity pursuant to Section [.D.6 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.

“HD” means the Project Implementing Entity’s Home Department, or any successor
thereto.

“HD-PIU” means the Project implementation unit established within the HD, pursuant to
Government Order No. 1156/6-P-2-2015-1100(12)/14, dated July 30, 2015, and referred
to in Section I.A.2(d) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.

“High Level Road Safety Committee” means the committee established by the Project
Implementing Entity pursuant to Order No. 40/1576/30-3-14-32M/2013TC, dated June 16,
2014, and referred to in Section I.A.2(a) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.

“Incremental Operating Costs” means the reasonable incremental expenses incurred by
PWD, HD and/or TD, on account of managing, implementing, monitoring and/or
evaluating the Project, which expenditures would not have been incurred absent the
Project, including, but no limited to: incremental staff salaries, per diem and allowances,
office rent, office supplies, utilities, conveyance, travel and boarding/lodging allowances,
operating and maintenance expenditures of office equipment and vehicles, bank charges,
insurance, advertising, media projections, newspaper subscriptions, periodicals, and

printing and stationary costs incurred for the purposes of Project activities; but excluding

salaries, fees, honoraria, bonuses, and any other salary supplements of members of Uttar
Pradesh’s civil service.

“PMC” means the Project management consultant hired pursuant to contract No.
01/UPCRNDP/PMC/2014-15, dated August 8, 2014, and referred to in Section I.A.2(g) of
the Schedule to the Project Agreement, and/or any successor thereto acceptable to the
Bank.

“Police” means the Project Implementing Entity’s police force operating under the aegis
of its HD.

“Procurement Manual” means procurement manual dated February 27, 2019, prepared and
adopted by the Project Implementing Entity, in a manner and substance satisfactory to the
Bank, setting forth the guiding policies, principles and protocols (consistent with the
Procurement Regulations) for the carrying out of procurement activities under the Project,
including detailed implementation arrangements and allocation of procurement
responsibilities therefor, public disclosure of documents and reporting requirements, and
the procedures for the filing and handling of any procurement complaint related to the
Project; as such manual may be amended from time to time with the prior written
concurrence of the Bank.

PEO SAREE
 

27.

28.

a.

30.

ak

32.

33.

34,

35.

36.

ar

-14-

“Procurement Regulations” means, for purposes of paragraph 85 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the “World Bank Procurement Regulations for IPF Borrowers”, dated
July 2016, revised November 2017 and August 2018.

“Project Governing Board” means the governing board established by PWD pursuant to
Order No. 1926B/23-12-2013-7(S)//2012, dated December 17, 2013 as ‘amended/
supplemented by Order No. 2436/23-12- 2018- 7($//2012, of October 4, 2018, and referred
to in Section [.A.2(b) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.

“Project Implementing Entity” means the Borrower’s State of Uttar Pradesh, or any
successor thereto.

“PWD” means the Project Implementing Entity’s Public Works Department, or any
successor thereto.

“PWD-Circles” means collectively the field-level division of the PWD-PIU established or
to be established, pursuant to Section I.A.2(c) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.

“PWD-PIU” means the Project implementation unit established within the PWD, pursuant
to PWD Officer Order No. 1698/Miscellaneous/CEWB/2019, dated January 23, 2019, and
referred to in Section I.A.2(c) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.

“RAP” means each of the resettlement action plans prepared, or to be prepared, by the
Project Implementing Entity in a manner and substance satisfactory to the Bank pursuant
to the provision of the ESMF, and disclosed, or to be disclosed, in-country and on the
Bank’s website, identifying the Displaced Persons affected by Project implementation, and
setting forth their entitlements and the terms and conditions for providing them
resettlement assistance and/or compensation, including the protocols for consultation, the
processing of complaints and grievance redressal,. together with adequate budget,
institutional, monitoring and reporting arrangements capable of ensuring proper
implementation of, and regular feedback on compliance with, its terms, as such plan may
be amended from time to time with the prior written concurrence of the Bank.

“RAP Implementation Support Agent” means the non-governmental organization or social
mobilization consulting firm hired, or to be hired, pursuant to Section [.A.4 of the Schedule
to the Project Agreement.

“Road Safety Implementation Plan” means the time-bound implementation plan to be
prepared by the Project Implementing Entity for the carrying out of sub-components 3.(a)
and (b) of the Project pursuant to the provision of Section I.C.1 of the Schedule to the
Project Agreements, as the same may be amended form time to time with the prior written
concurrence of the Bank.

“RSC” means the road safety cell established within the TD, pursuant to Government Order
No. 19/187/30-3-15-42M/2014, dated February 27, 2015, and referred to in Section
[.A.2(e) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.

“RSD” means the Road Safety Division of the PWD, or any successor thereto.
te

38. “Safeguard Documents” means, collectively, the ESMF, the EMPs, the RAPs, the TPDPs
and the GAPs.

39. “SCRNMP” means the Project Implementing Entity’s Strategic Core Road Network
Master Plan prepared by PWD in 2013 and approved/adopted by the Project Implementing
~ Entity in 2014 pursuant to Government Order 694/23-12-2014-4(S)/2012, dated April 29,

2014.

40. “Signature Date” means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the Bank
signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to “the date of the Loan
Agreement” in the General Conditions.

41. “State Road Safety Policy” means the Project Implementing Entity’s policy on road safety
approved pursuant to Order No. 1575/30-3-2014-32M/2013T.C., dated June 16, 2014.

42. “Sub-component” means each of the three subsets (groups) of,activities within Component
3, identified under paragraphs (a) though (c) as per the description contained in Schedule
1 to this Agreement, and entitled “(a) Road Safety Initiative by the HD;” “(b) Road Safety
Initiative by the TD;” “(c) Road Safety Initiative by the PWD.”

43. “TD” means the Project Implementing Entity’s Transport Department, or any successor
thereto. ;

44. “TPAC” means the third-party audit consulting firm to be hired by the Project
Implementing Entity, through its PWD, pursuant to Section I.A.3(a) of the Schedule to the
Project Agreement.

45. “TPDP” means each of the Tribal Peoples development plans prepared, or to be prepared,
by the Project Implementing Entity in a manner and substance satisfactory to the Bank
pursuant to the provision of the ESMF, and disclosed, or to be disclosed, in-country and
on the Bank’s website, setting forth: (a) the consultation protocols, mitigation mechanisms,
and enhancement, monitoring and institutional measures (including capacity building
through training) required to: (i) minimize the adverse impacts of Project activities on
Tribal Peoples; (ii) offset such impacts, or reduce them to acceptable levels; and (iii)
enhance positive impacts thereof so that Tribal Peoples receive culturally appropriate social
and economic benefits derived from of the Project; and (b) adequate budget to ensure
proper implementation thereof, as such plan may be amended from time to time with the
prior written concurrence of the Bank.

46. “Training” means the reasonable costs of training, workshops and conferences required for
the Project and conducted in the territory of the Borrower and, subject to the Bank’s prior
approval, overseas, including training institutional and course fees, logistics expenses,
rental of training facilities, purchase and publication of training materials, and travel and
subsistence allowance for trainers and/or trainees.

47. “Transport Commissioner Office” means the Project Implementing Entity’s Transport
Commissioner Office within the TD, or any successor office or sub-departmental division
thereto.

FB Haha CR OR SRE RO A ee a
enietanneananeanencelnntanienet

freeenecmenn ae

eee ee SNS Recap REET Sa TORRE AR RRR AGN Ah ont Site HAGS we Sepacagsa es F
I A ASE GIGS ENS AT SEERA SALLE PG EASED GAM DE SALISH ASE SAAS REEL REPS ERE PDE CRE ee LOSE OG TS ON ESTA GeO DBE IINN TES ERGOT CAN mS ERE MN UE aH Salty Site Sn Bh RE al RF SEF He ELITE EEE LES A SE ARTI OY TALLER Ti HORE APNE IES SRG nT AIR a Hy GED RAS WTR ER MRSS
ae e - Pee ae = — ae . , es
48.

49.
50.

Si.

-16-

“Tribal Peoples” means any distinct, vulnerable, social and cultural group within the
territory of the Project Implementing Entity, that: (i) self-identifies as such and claims, and
is recognized by others as, having a distinguishable cultural identity; (ii) has collective
attachment to geographically distinct habitats or ancestral territories in the Project area,
and to the natural resources in these habitat and territories; (iii) has customary cultural,
economic, social and political institutions that are separate from those of the dominant
society and culture; (iv) has an indigenous language, often different from the official
language of the Recipient; and/or (v) as defined by the Constitution of India.

“UPHP” means the Project Implementing Entity’s Uttar Pradesh Highways Police, to be
established and to operate under the aegis of the HD, pursuant to the UPHP Legal
Framework.

“UPHP Legal Framework” means the UPHP framework to be approved by Uttar Pradesh
pursuant to Section II.B.1(b)(ii) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and in manner and
substance satisfactory to the Bank.

“Uttar Pradesh” means the Borrower’s State of Uttar Pradesh (the Project Implementing
Entity) or any successor thereto.
