Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

LOAN NUMBER 8937-CO

Loan Agreement

(Colombia Multipurpose Cadaster Project
Programa para la Adopcion e Implementacion de un Catastro Multipropésito Rural-urbano)

between
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between the REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA

(“Borrower”) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank’’). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:

1.0%,

2.01.

2.02.

2.03.

2.04.

Ale.

2.06.

207.

3.01.

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to and form
part of this Agreement.

Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.

ARTICLE II — LOAN

The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of one hundred million dollars
($100,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency
Conversion (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement (“‘Project’’).

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section III of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.

The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.

The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Variable Spread or such rate as may apply
following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General Conditions.

The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.

ARTICLE UI — PROJECT

The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall: (i) through DNP carry out Parts 1.1, 3.4 and 4.1 of the Project; (ii) through
ANT carry out Parts 1.4, 2.3, 3.3 and 4.4 of the Project; (iii) through IGAC carry out Parts
1.2, 2.1, 2.4, 3.2 and 4.2 of the Project; and (iv) through SNR carry out Part 1.3, 2.2, 3.1
and 4.3 of the Project, all under the coordination of DNP and in accordance with the

x.
4.01.

4.02.

5.01.

5.02.

5.03.

provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, Schedule 2 to this Agreement and the
Inter-institutional Agreement.

ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that the Inter-
Institutional Agreement has been duly executed by the Project Implementing Entities.

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the Signature Date.

ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Finance and Public Credit.
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Borrower’s address is:

Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
Carrera 8 No. 6 C 38 Bogota D.C Piso 3°

and
(b) the Borrower’s Electronic Address is:

Facsimile:
(571) 350 9344

For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Bank’s address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development

1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America; and

(b) the Bank’s Electronic Address is:

Telex: Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
AGREED as of the Signature Date.

REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA

6

pgs uthorized Representative

9 Name: Alberto Canasqu ING Bayrera

Title: Minist10

Date: August {3h 2619

Countersigned on behalf of the
Ministry of Justice a )Law of Colombia

 

Title: MinistyQ.

 

Countersigned on behalf of the

National Planning Department of Colombia as

the Authorized Representative and Technical

Coordinator of thé Project

    

Authorized Representative

Name: Glory Annparo Aiorngo Masmela

Title: Diectoca

 

a

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

” Mle ede -——~-
Authorized Representative

Name: Ulrich Zachaw

ritte: DUOC Colombia and Venewela

Date: € Aah der} |
= —

“0

Countersigned on behalf of the
Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
of Colombia

 

Name: fIndieS Rarael Valencia Pinzon
Title: MinystrO

Countersigned on behalf of the
National Administrative Department of Statistics
of Colombia

By

  

Authorized Representative

Name: JUG Danyel Owedo Arango
Title: Direct Ot e

   
Countersigned on behalf of the
Superintendent of Notaries and Registries of
Colombia

»y Rue

Authorized Representative

   
 

 

Name: Kuben Silwa Gomez

Title: Sup e( injeqndente

Countersigned on behalf of the
National Land Agency of Colombia

.

Countersigned on behalf of the
Geographic Institute Augustin Codazzi

By as fk. Paes

Authorized Representative

Name: C\GMOAliO Ci be Toho n
Title: DicectorQe

 

Mette 0 Most, C

Authorized Representative

Name: My ciain Caiolina Madine2 Cardenas

Title: ifec +01 OU
SCHEDULE 1

Project Description

The objective of the Project is to establish the multipurpose cadaster in the Selected Municipalities
to: (a) strengthen tenure security; and (b) provide access to cadaster information.

The Project consists of the following parts:

Part 1. Institutional Strengthening

Ls

Strengthening DNP’s institutional capacity by, inter alia, developing strategies for the
sustainability of the Project, including the permanent access to cadastral and registry
services at the Selected Municipalities.

Strengthening IGAC’s institutional capacity to improve cartographic and cadastral
capabilities, including the permanent access to registry services at the Selected
Municipalities.

Strengthening SNR’s institutional capacity to deliver property registration services,
including the permanent access to cadastral services at the Selected Municipalities.

Strengthening ANT’s institutional capacity to improve Land Tenure Formalization
services, including the permanent access to cadastral and registry services at the Selected
Municipalities.

Part 2. ICT Development and Strengthening the National Spatial Data Infrastructure

Le

Z.

3.

4.

Strengthening IGAC’s ICT infrastructure and development of the Cadaster-Registry
Master Data Repository.

Strengthening SNR’s ICT infrastructure.
Strengthening ANT’s ICT infrastructure.

Strengthening the NSDI.

Part 3. Implementation and maintenance of the Multipurpose Cadaster

i.

Ensuring the availability of SNR land registry records for the implementation and
maintenance of the multipurpose cadaster through, inter alia, the digitization and
systematization of paper-based property registry information (folio antiguo), and final
registration of all relevant documents.

Establishing the multipurpose cadaster through, inter alia: (i) carrying out the densification
of the geodetic network through the application of best practices; (ii) producing basic

-5-
cartography; (iii) systematizing paper record cadastral information; (iv) preparing a
diagnostic for each area of intervention; (v) carrying out a cadastral survey, through data
gathering about the physical, legal and economic characteristics of all parcels located
within the Selected Municipalities; (vi) incorporating and maintaining the gathered data
into the SNC; and (vii) supporting informal land tenure identification and alternative
dispute resolution.

Providing land tenure formalization services through, inter alia: (i) ensuring that ANT's
historical rural land titling records are available in a timely manner contributing to the
identification of land rights and restrictions; and (ii) formulating and implementing of
Rural Property Formalization Plans (Planes de Ordenamiento Social de la Propiedad
Rural).

Strengthening institutional capacities at local level by, inter alia: (i) facilitating access to
cadaster and registry services for all citizens in the territory; and (ii) strengthening the
capacities of municipal entities to use information from the multipurpose cadaster.

Part 4. Project Management

l.

Supporting DNP’s Project coordination and management activities including, inter alia:
financial management, procurement, safeguards and monitoring and evaluation.

Supporting IGAC’s Project management activities including, inter alia: financial
management, procurement, safeguards and monitoring and evaluation.

Supporting SNR’s Project management activities including, inter alia: financial
management, procurement, safeguards and monitoring and evaluation.

Supporting ANT’s Project management activities including, inter alia: financial
management, procurement, safeguards and monitoring and evaluation.
SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Section I. Implementation Arrangements

A. Institutional Arrangements
L. To facilitate the implementation of the Project the Borrower shall:
(a) up to ninety (90) days after Effective Date, appoint, create and maintain,

throughout Project implementation, a Project Director and a Project Coordination
Unit (PCU) within DNP, with staffing and functions set forth in the Operational
Manual;

(b) create and maintain, throughout Project implementation, Management Units (MU)
within IGAC, ANT and SNR, with staffing and functions set forth in the
Operational Manual;

(c) create and maintain, throughout Project implementation the Project Steering
Committee, with composition and functions set forth in the Operational Manual;
and

(d) create and maintain, throughout Project implementation the Project Technical

Committee, with composition and functions set forth in the Operational Manual.
B. Inter-institutional Agreement

l. To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Project Implementing Entities shall enter
into an agreement, under terms and conditions acceptable by the Bank (“‘Inter-institutional
Agreement’’), which shall include the proceeds of the Loan available to each Project
Implementing Entity and each Implementing Entity’s obligation to carry out its Respective
Part of the Project in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement and the
Operational Manual.

a: The Project Implementing Entities, shall exercise its rights under the Inter-institutional
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Project
Implementing Entities shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive, terminate or fail to enforce
the Inter-institutional Agreement or any of its provisions.

oie Fiduciary Agent

i If agreed between the Borrower and the Bank as necessary to facilitate the carrying out the
Project Implementing Entities Respective Parts of the Project, the Borrower, through the
Project Implementing Entity(s), may hire a Fiduciary Agent, under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, and make part of the proceeds of the Loan available to the
Fiduciary Agent under an agreement between the Borrower, through the Project

7.
Implementing Entity(s) and the Fiduciary Agent (Fiduciary Agent Agreement), under
terms and conditions approved by the Bank, which shall include, inter alia:

(a) the Fiduciary Agent’s obligation to maintain records and accounts adequate to
reflect the operations, resources and expenditures of the Project, in order to enable
the Borrower, through the Project Implementing Entity(s) to comply with its
obligations under this Agreement; and

(b) the roles and responsibilities of the Fiduciary Agent with regard to the
implementation of the Project, including compliance with the pertinent provisions
of this Agreement and the Operational Manual.

The Borrower, through DNP, shall exercise its rights under the Fiduciary Agent Agreement
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish
the purposes of the Loan.

Operational Manual

The Borrower, through the Project Implementing Entities, shall carry out the Project and/or
cause the Project to be carried out, in accordance with the provisions of a manual (the
Operational Manual) satisfactory to the Bank, containing, inter alia: (a) the activities and
timetable of actions to be carried out under the Project; (b) the respective roles and
responsibilities of the Implementing Entities; (c) the composition and responsibilities of
the PCU and MUs; (d) the fiduciary, technical and operational aspects and procedures for
implementation of the Project, including the financial management procedures (budgeting,
accounting and internal control, disbursement and flow of funds, financial reporting,
annual reports, internal and external audit arrangements procedures); (e) the performance
indicators for the Project; and (f) the ESMF, IPP, RPF and the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.

The Borrower, through the Project Implementing Entities, shall not amend or waive or fail
to enforce any provision of the Operational Manual without the Bank’s prior written
approval. In case of any conflict between the terms of the Operational Manual and those
of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.

Not later than thirty (30) days after Effective Date, the Borrower, through the Project
Implementing Entities, shall adopt the Operational Manual in a manner and with contents
acceptable to the Bank.

Safeguards

The Borrower, through the Project Implementing Entities, shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the ESMF, the IPP and the RPF.

The Borrower, through the Project Implementing Entity(s), shall ensure that the terms of
reference of any Project consultancy shall be satisfactory to the Bank following its review
thereof and, to that end, such terms of reference shall duly incorporate the requirements of
the Bank’s Safeguard Policies then in force, as applied to the advice conveyed through
such technical assistance.

-8-
Section II. Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

The Borrower, through DNP, shall furnish to the Bank each Project Report not later than

forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar semester, covering the calendar semester.

Section III. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

A.

2.

General.

Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and in
accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the Borrower,
through the Project Implementing Entities, may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to
finance Eligible Expenditures, in the amount allocated and, if applicable, up to the
percentage set forth against each Category of the following table:

  
    
   

  
    
 

Category Amount of the Loan Percentage of

    
 
  
   

   

     

         
 

Allocated Expenditures to be
(expressed in USD) financed
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, works, non- 100,000,000 100%

 

consulting services,
consulting services, Training
and Operating Costs for the
Project

TOTAL AMOUNT 100,000,000 eins h ie

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.

 
   
       
   

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A above, no withdrawal shall be made for payments
made prior to the Signature Date.

The Closing Date is January 31, 2025.

Section IV. Other Undertakings

A.

The Borrower through IGAC shall, no later than six (6) months from the Signing Date,
approve simplified regulations for cadastral surveying, satisfactory to the Bank.

The Borrower, through ANT, shall, no later than six (6) months from the Signing Date,
approve, within its institutional competence, simplified regulations or procedures for land
tenure formalization, satisfactory to the Bank.
SCHEDULE 3

Annuity Principal Repayments

Customized Amortization Repayment Schedule

           
       

-10-
APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

i

“ANT” means Agencia Nacional de Tierras, the Borrower’s National Land Agency,
created by Law Decree 2363 of 2015.

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and Corruption
in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006
and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.

“Bank Safeguards Policies” means the Bank's operational safeguard policies and
procedures, set forth in the World Bank's Policies and Directives under OP/BPs 4.01, 4.04,
4.09, 4.10, 4.11, 4.12, 4.36, and 4.37, or such policies and procedures then in force.

“Cadaster-Registry Master Data Repository” or “Data Repository” means the Borrower’s
standardized and integrated data platform, modeled under the standard ISO 19152 - Land
Administration Domain Model, which consolidates core cadastral and registry datasets: (i)
parties (people and organizations); (11) ownership rights, responsibilities, and restrictions;
(111) parcels; and (iv) spatial representations of parcels and ownership rights (geometry and
topology).

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section III.A of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.

“‘DNP” means Departamento Nacional de Planeacion , the Borrower’s National Planning
Department created by Law 19 of 1958 and regulated by Decree 2996 of 1968.

“ESMFP”, or “Environmental and Social Management Framework” means the Borrower’s
framework (Andlisis Ambiental y Social y Marco de Gestién Ambiental y Social; Programa
de Fortalecimiento de la Gestion Catastral Multiproposito) acceptable to the Bank, dated
July 2017 and disclosed by the Borrower on September 14, 2017, and by the Bank on
October 30, 2017, which contains, inter alia, the guidelines for the carrying out of
environmental and social assessments and for the preparation and implementation of site-
specific environmental management plans and social responsibility plans, as well as the
environmental protection measures in respect of Part 3 of the Project, including measures
that may impact archeologically or culturally significant resources; and for chance finding
of cultural property and potential direct and indirect environmental impacts from the
carrying out of said Parts of the Project, recommendation of mitigation measures for each
negative impact identified, as well as measures for enhancing each identified positive
impact, as said framework may be amended from time to time with the prior agreement of
the Bank.

“Fiduciary Agent” means any financial services institution that, in accordance with the
Borrower’s Presidential Decree No. 633 of 1993 (Estatuto Orgdnico del Sistema
Financiero), as amended to date, is authorized to perform fiduciary functions involving

siz
10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

public funds, to be selected by the Borrower, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank, for entering into a Fiduciary Agent Agreement.

“Fiduciary Agent Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.C of Schedule
2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan
available to the Fiduciary Agent for the implementation of Parts 1, 2 and 3 of the Project.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project Financing”, dated December
14, 2018.

“ICT” means information and communication technology.

“IGAC” means Instituto Geografico Agustin Codazzi, the Geographic Institute Agustin
Codazzi created by Law 14 of 1983 and regulated by Decree 2838 of 1991.

“Inter-institutional Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into among the Project
Implementing Entities, pursuant to Section I.B. of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“IPP” or “Indigenous People Plan” means the Borrower’s plan (Diseno y Formulacion del
Plan para Pueblos Indigenas y Grupos Etnicos Identificados en el Territorio Nacional:
Comunidades Afro con Territorios Colectivos y Comunidades Indigenas en Resguardos;
Plan para pueblos Indigenas y Grupos Etnicos, Proyecto Catastro Multiproposito), dated
July 2017 and disclosed by the Borrower on September 14, 2017, and by the Bank on
October 30, 2017, detailing measures to mitigate any adverse impact on indigenous peoples
as a result of any activity carried out under Part 3 of the Project and to ensure that they
benefit from said Part of the Project.

“Land Tenure Formalization” means Ordenamiento Social de la Propiedad Rural, to be
understood as defined and regulated under the Borrower’s Decree 2363 of 2015, Decree
Law 902 of 2017 and ANT’s Resolution 740 of 2017.

“MU” or Management Unit means the unit referred to in Section I.A.1 (b) of Schedule 2
to this Agreement.

“NSDI’” means the Borrower’s National Spatial Data Infrastructure (Unfrastructura
Colombiana de Datos Espaciales, -(CDE), which is a platform for the interoperability and
sharing of geographic or spatial information and data sets through web-enabled
technologies, within the Borrower’s territory, under IGAC’s responsibility.

“Operating Costs” means the incremental expenses incurred on account of Project
implementation, including: office supplies, vehicles operation and maintenance cost,
vehicle rental and fuel costs, maintenance of equipment, communication costs, office rental
and moving expenses, utilities expenses, consumables, printing and publication costs,
transport and accommodation, per diem and salaries of support staff working for the
Project, and other miscellaneous costs directly associated with the Project as shall be
agreed with the Bank.

1s
19.

20.

zi;

Ze.

23.

24.

2).

26.

net

28.

29:

“Operational Manual” means the Borrower’s manual (Reglamento Operativo del Proyecto)
and referred to in Section I.D.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the same may be
amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank.

“PCU” or Project Coordination Unit means the unit referred to in Section I.A.1 (a) of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Procurement Regulations” means, for purposes of paragraph 85 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the “World Bank Procurement Regulations for IPF Borrowers”, dated
July 2016, revised November 2017.

“Project Implementing Entity” means either DNP, ANT, IGAC, SNR, collectively referred
to as “Project Implementing Entities”.

“Project Steering Committee” means the committee set forth in Section I.A.1 (c) of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Project Technical Committee” means the committee set forth in Section I.A.1 (d) of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Resettlement” means the impact of an involuntary taking of land under the Project, which
taking causes affected persons to have their: (i) standard of living adversely affected; or
(11) right, title or interest in any house, land (including premises, agricultural and grazing
land) or any other fixed or movable asset acquired or possessed, temporarily or
permanently; or (iii) access to productive assets adversely affected, temporarily or
permanently; or (iv) business, occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely
affected, temporarily or permanently.

“RPF” or “Resettlement Process Framework means the Borrower’s framework (Colombia
Proyecto de Catastro Multiproposito (P162594); Marco de Procedimiento para el Manejo
de Restricciones relativas al acceso y uso de Recursos Naturales) acceptable to the Bank,
dated July 16, 2018, and disclosed by the Borrower on October 1*', 2018, and by the Bank
on November 19, 2018, and outlining general implementation procedures, mitigation
measures and monitoring procedures for Resettlement under Part 3 of the Project, including
the procedures for the preparation and implementation of resettlement action plans, as said
framework may be amended from time to time with the Bank’s prior approval.

“Selected Municipalities” means the municipalities selected by the Borrower to participate
in the Project according to the criteria outlined in the Operational Manual.

“Signature Date” means the later of the dates on which the Borrower and the Bank signed
this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to “the date of the Loan

Agreement” in the General Conditions.

“SNC” means the Borrower’s National Cadastral Information System.

ee
30.

31.

“SNR” means Superintendencia de Notariado y Registro, the Borrower’s Superintendent
of Notaries and Registries, created by Law Decree 3346 of 1959 and regulated by Decree
1298 of 1962.

“Training” means, in respect of category (1) in the table in Section III.A of Schedule 2 to
the Agreement: expenses incurred for Project-related study tours, training courses,
seminars, workshops and other training activities, not included under goods or service
providers’ contracts, including costs of training materials, space and equipment rental,
travel, accommodation and per diem costs of trainees and trainers and trainers’ fees, and

other training related miscellaneous costs, all based on an annual budget agreed with the
Bank.

-14-
