Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

 

 

LOAN NUMBER 8960-IQ

Loan Agreement

(Electricity Services Reconstruction and Enhancement Project)

between
REPUBLIC OF IRAQ
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
LOAN NUMBER 8960-1Q
LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT dated as ofthe Signature Date between REPUBLIC OF IRAQ

(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:

1.01.

1.02.

2.01.

2.02.

2.03.

2.04.

2.05.

2.06.

2.07.

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to and form
part of this Agreement.

Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.

ARTICLE IT — LOAN
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of two hundred million Dollars
($200,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency
Conversion (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this

Agreement (“Project”).

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section III of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.

The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.

The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Variable Spread or such rate as may apply
following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General Conditions.

The Payment Dates are May 1 and November 1 in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.

ARTICLE II — PROJECT

The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end, the Borrower
shall cause SETC to carry out Part 1 of the Project and cause SEDC to carry out Parts 2 and 3 of
the Project, all in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, Schedule 2
to this Agreement, and the Project Agreement.
4.01.

4.02.

4.03.

5.01.

5.02.

5.03.

ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:

(a) the Borrower, SETC, and SEDC have executed the Subsidiary Agreement in
accordance with the provisions of Section I.B.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
and

(b) SEDC has adopted the Project Implementation Manual.

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the Signature Date.

For purposes of Section 9.05 (b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the

obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement (other than those providing for payment

obligations) shall terminate is twenty (20) years after the Signature Date.
ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

The Borrower’s Representative is its minister responsible for finance.

For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Borrower’s address is:

Ministry of Finance

Hay Alaloom

Bab Al Mu’ dham

Baghdad

Iraq; and

(b) the Borrower’s Electronic Address is:

E-mail:

s.hadeethi@mof.gov.iq

For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Bank’s address is:

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development

1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America; and

(b) the Bank’s Electronic Address is:

Facsimile:

1-202-477-6391
 

AGREED as of the Signature Date.

REPUBLIC OF IRAQ

     

By

epresentative

Name: Fnacl Husciey
Title: Minister of Lonance

Date: / , / CEA

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By \

“Saee
Authorized Representative

/

Name: G4 QR hair

eee
Date: 4 4 (_ Jz 4

 
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description

The objective of the Project is to improve the reliability and operational and commercial’

efficiency of electricity services in the selected Project areas.

Part 1.

Part 2.

Part 3.

The Project consists of the following parts:

South Electricity Transmission Network Reinforcement

Increase of south electricity transmission network capacity through rehabilitation and
upgrading of substations (including installation of autotransformers), reinforcement of
network (including construction of circuit lines and new substations and reinforcement of
existing ones), and installation of mobile substations.

South Electricity Distribution Network Reconstruction and Reinforcement and SEDC
Electricity Sales Revenue Management Improvement

(a) South Electricity Distribution Network Reconstruction and Reinforcement

Increase of south electricity distribution network capacity through rehabilitation and
upgrading of substations, reinforcement of network (including construction of new
substations and reinforcement of existing ones), and installation of mobile substations.

(b) SEDC Electricity Sales Revenue Management Improvement

Enhancement of SEDC’s operational and commercial efficiency through design, supply,
installation, and commissioning of an integrated distribution management information
system (including a commercial management system, a distribution management system,
an enterprise resource planning system, and a revenue protection program).

Institutional Capacity Strengthening and Project Implementation Support

(a) SEDC Capacity Building and Institutional Strengthening

Enhancement of institutional capacity of SEDC as a corporate entity, for improved
accountability, governance, and financial sustainability, including through business
reengineering, implementation of integrated distribution management information system
commissioned under Part 2 (b) of the Project, deployment of experienced technical staff in
operations, commercial services, finance, and corporate services, and related training and
capacity building of staff.

(b) SEDC Corporate Strategic Plan and Performance Management
Definition of SEDC mission and vision, development of robust medium-term strategic

plan, carrying out of training aimed at aligning behaviors to corporate values, and provision
of support to SEDC leadership to align performance and targets to corporate strategy.
 

(c) Feasibility and Diagnostic Studies

Carrying out of studies aimed at addressing sector-performance improvements in medium
to long term, particularly in relation to grid supply and reliability and options for sector
development. :

(d) Project Implementation Support
Provision of support to Ministry of Electricity, SEDC, and SETC in Project implementation

and sector management, including through engagement of an owner’s engineer and a
business support services firm.

 
SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

SectionI. ~ Implementation Arrangements

Institutional Arrangements

The Borrower shall cause SETC to be responsible for the management (including financial
management, disbursement, and procurement), implementation, and monitoring and
evaluation of Part 1 of the Project, and to coordinate and collaborate with SEDC for such

purpose.

The Borrower shall cause SEDC to be responsible for overall coordination of the Project
and the management (including financial management, disbursement, and procurement),
implementation, and monitoring and evaluation of Parts 2 and 3 of the Project, and to
coordinate and collaborate with SETC for such purpose.

Subsidiary Agreement

To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make the proceeds of the
Loan available to: (a) SETC for purposes of carrying out activities under Part 1 of the
Project; and (b) SEDC for purposes of carrying out activities under Parts 2 and 3 of the
Project, under a subsidiary agreement between the Borrower, SETC, and SEDC, under
terms and conditions approved by the Bank, which shall include the following (“Subsidiary
Agreement”):

(i) the right of SETC to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan for Part 1 of the Project
on behalf of the Borrower, and proceeds so withdrawn shall be considered to be
withdrawn by the Borrower;

(11) the right of SEDC to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan for Parts 2 and 3 of the
Project on behalf of the Borrower, and proceeds so withdrawn shall be considered
to be withdrawn by the Borrower;

(iii) | the provision of the proceeds of the Loan on a grant basis;

(iv) the obligation of SETC and SEDC to carry out their respective Parts of the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical,
economic, financial, managerial, environmental, and social standards and practices
satisfactory to the Bank, including the provisions of the Anti-Corruption
Guidelines applicable to recipients of loan proceeds other than the Borrower;

(v) the obligation of SETC and SEDC to carry out the Project in accordance with the
provisions of the Safeguards Instruments, and without any right or authority,
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree in writing, to assign, amend, abrogate, or
waive, or permit to be assigned, amended, abrogated, or waived, said instruments;
(vi)

(vil)

(viii)

(ix)

(x)

(xi)

the obligation of SETC and SEDC to separately: (A) maintain a financial
management system and prepare financial statements in accordance with
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, both in a manner
adequate to reflect the operations and financial condition of SETC and SEDC, as
appropriate, including the operations, resources, and expenditures related to the
Project; and (B) have such statements audited by independent auditors acceptable
to the Bank, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable
to the Bank, and furnish such audited financial statements to the Borrower and the
Bank in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) (ii) of the General
Conditions and make them publicly available in a timely fashion and in a manner
acceptable to the Bank;

the obligation of the SETC and SEDC to carry out procurement of the goods,
works, and consultants’ services required for their respective Parts of the Project
in accordance with the provisions of the Procurement Regulations, as said
provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan;

the obligation of the SETC and SEDC to maintain policies and procedures
adequate to enable them to monitor and evaluate, in accordance with the indicators
set forth in the Project Implementation Manual, the progress of their respective
Parts of the Project and the achievement of its objective;

the obligation of the SETC and SEDC to enable the Borrower and the Bank to
inspect their respective Parts of the Project, its operation, and any relevant records
and documents;

the obligation of the SETC and SEDC to prepare and furnish to the Borrower and
the Bank all such information as the Borrower or the Bank shall reasonably request
relating to the foregoing; and

the right of the Borrower to suspend or terminate the right of SETC or SEDC to
use such part of the proceeds or obtain a refund of all or any part of the amount of
such part of the proceeds then withdrawn, upon SETC’s or SEDC’s failure to
perform any of its respective obligations under such agreement.

The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as
to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend,
abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Agreement or any of its provisions.

Project Implementation Manual

The Borrower shall: (a) ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the Project
Implementation Manual; and (b) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree in writing, not
assign, amend, abrogate, or waive, or permit to be assigned, amended, abrogated, or
waived, said manual.
2 In the event of a conflict between the provisions of said manual and those of this
Agreement, the latter shall govern.

D. Safeguards

The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of the
Safeguards Instruments, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree in writing, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, abrogate, or waive, or permit to be assigned, amended, abrogated, or
waived, said instruments.

Section II. Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

A. Project Reports

The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank each Project Report not later than one (1) month after the
end of each calendar quarter, covering the calendar quarter.

B. Semi-Annual Reviews

The Borrower shall review jointly with the Bank, SETC, and SEDC, not later than one (1) month
after the submission of every second Project Report to the Bank, such report and the one preceding,
and thereafter take, and cause the SETC and SEDC, jointly and severally, to take, all measures
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objective
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of such reports and the Bank’s views on
the matter.

C. Midterm Review
The Borrower shall:

(a) carry out jointly with the Bank, SETC, and SEDC, not later than thirty-six (36) months, or
such other period as may be agreed with the Bank, after the Effective Date, a midterm
review to assess the status of Project implementation, as measured against the indicators
set forth in the Project Implementation Manual. Such review shall include an assessment
of the following: (i) overall progress in implementation; (ii) results of monitoring and
evaluation activities; (iii) progress on procurement and disbursement; (iv) progress on
implementation of the Safeguards Instruments; (v) implementation arrangements; and
(vi) the need to make any adjustments to the Project and reallocate funds to improve
performance;

(b) to this end, cause SEDC, in cooperation and coordination with SETC, to prepare and
furnish to the Borrower and the Bank, not later than one (1) month before such review, a
report, in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank and integrating the results of the
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to Section II.A of the Schedule to
the Project Agreement, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during
the period preceding the date of such report and setting out the measures recommended to
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objective thereof
during the period following such date; and
(c) thereafter take, and cause SETC and SEDC to take, all measures required to ensure the
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objective thereof, based on
the conclusions and recommendations of such report and the Bank’s views on the matter.

Section III. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A, General

Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and in accordance
with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the Borrower may withdraw the proceeds
of the Loan to: (a) finance Eligible Expenditures; and (b) pay: (i) the Front-end Fee; and (ii) each
Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar premium; in the amount allocated and, if applicable, up to
the percentage set forth against each Category of the following table:

    
     
  
    

  
    
   

 
  

Amount of the Loan
Allocated

Category Percentage of Expenditures

to be financed
(expressed in USD)

(inclusive of Taxes)
z
- a

   
   
      
       
     
    
    
      
   
     
 

 

(1) Goods, works, non-
consulting services,
consulting services,
Training, and Operating
Costs for Part 1 of the
Project

(2) Goods, works, non-
consulting services,
consulting services
(including for audits),
Training, and Operating
Costs for Parts 2 and 3 of
the Project

  

  

(3) Front-end Fee

500,000 Amount payable pursuant to
Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
tae Amount due pursuant to

Section 4.05 (c) of the
TOTAL AMOUNT $200,000,000 eee |

  

(4) Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar
premium

   

General Conditions

   
 

«th.

B. Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

1. Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A above, no withdrawal shall be made for payments
made prior to the Signature Date, except that withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed
$35,000,000 for Category (1), and up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $40,000,000 for

Category (2), may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after July 1, 2018, for
Eligible Expenditures under said Categories.

Zz. The Closing Date is June 30, 2024.

 
 

ee

SCHEDULE 3
Commitment-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage of the
total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date (“Installment Share’’).

Level Principal Repayments

Principal Payment Date Installment Share

On each November 1 and May 1
Beginning November 1, 2024
Through November 1, 2032

      

    
 
 

  

5.56%

     

On May 1, 2033 5.48%

 
a

APPENDIX
Definitions

“Affected Person” means a person who, on account of implementation of the Project, has
experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts caused by: (a) the
involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets or
access to assets; or (111) loss of income sources or means of livelihood, whether or not such
person must move to another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally
designated parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such
person; and “Affected Persons” means, collectively, all such persons.

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and Corruption
in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006
and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section III.A of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.

“Coordinating Committee” means the committee responsible for strategic oversight,
guidance, and overall coordination of activities under the Project, or a successor thereto.

“Environmental and Social Management Framework” means SEDC’s framework, dated
October 2018 and agreed with the Bank, setting forth mitigation, enhancement, monitoring,
and institutional measures, including capacity building through training, and establishment
and maintenance of a grievance redress mechanism, to eliminate any adverse
environmental and social impacts of the Project, offset them, or reduce them to acceptable
levels, or enhance positive impacts, and guidelines and procedures for the preparation of
Environmental and Social Management Plans (as hereinafter defined), as the same may be
modified from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank, and such term
includes any annexes or schedules to such framework.

“Environmental and Social Management Plan” means SEDC’s plan, to be prepared in
accordance with the provisions of the Environmental and Social Management Framework
(as hereinafter defined) and agreed with the Bank, setting out mitigation, enhancement,
monitoring, and institutional measures, including capacity building through training, to
eliminate any adverse environmental and social impacts of specific activities under the
Project, offset them, or reduce them to acceptable levels, or enhance positive impacts, as
the same may be modified from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank,
and such term includes any annexes or schedules to such plan.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project Financing”, dated
December 14, 2018.

“Involuntary Resettlement” means the following caused on account of Project
implementation: (a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of
10.

i.

ie:

13.

ee

shelter; (11) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources or means of
livelihood, whether or not the affected person must move to another location; or (b) the
involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and protected areas resulting
in adverse impacts on the livelihood of the affected person.

“Operating Costs” means the incremental operating costs of the Project, based on the
annual work plans and budgets referred to in Section I.C of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement as approved by the Bank, and incurred by the Borrower, SEDC, or SETC for
purposes of Project management, implementation, and monitoring and evaluation, on
account of utilities and supplies, bank charges, communications, vehicle operation,
maintenance, and insurance, office space rental, building and equipment maintenance,
public awareness-related media expenses, domestic and international travel and
subsistence, and salaries of contractual and temporary staff, but excluding salaries and fees,
honoraria, bonuses, and any other salary supplements of members of the Borrower’s civil
service.

“Procurement Regulations” means, for purposes of paragraph 85 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the “World Bank Procurement Regulations for IPF Borrowers”, dated
July 2016, revised November 2017 and August 2018.

“Project Implementation Manual” means the SEDC’s manual, to be agreed with the Bank
and setting out implementation, organizational, administrative, monitoring and evaluation
(including performance indicators and related targets), financial management,
disbursement, and procurement arrangements for purposes of Project implementation, as
the same may be modified from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank,
and such term includes any annexes or schedules to such manual.

“Project Management Teams” means, collectively, the SEDC Project Management
Team (as hereinafter defined) and the SETC Project Management Team (as hereinafter
defined).

“Resettlement Action Plan” means SEDC’s plan, to be prepared in accordance with the
provisions of the Resettlement Policy Framework (as hereinafter defined) and agreed with
the Bank, setting forth arrangements pertaining to land acquisition and the compensation,
resettlement, and rehabilitation of Affected Persons under specific activities under the
Project, as the same may be modified from time to time with the prior written agreement
of the Bank, and such term includes any annexes or schedules to such plan.

“Resettlement Policy Framework” means SEDC’s framework, dated October 2018 and
agreed with the Bank, setting forth mitigation, enhancement, monitoring, and institutional
measures, including capacity building through training, and establishment and
maintenance of a grievance redress mechanism, pertaining to land acquisition and the
compensation, resettlement, and rehabilitation of Affected Persons under the Project, and
guidelines and procedures for the preparation of Resettlement Action Plans, as the same
may be modified from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank, and such
term includes any annexes or schedules to such framework.
1.

16.

17.

18.

19.

20.

21.

-14-

“Safeguards Instruments” means, collectively, the Environmental and Social Management
Framework, any Environmental and Social Management Plans, the Resettlement Policy
Framework, and any Resettlement Action Plans, and such term includes any annexes or
schedules to such instruments.

“SEDC” means South Electricity Distribution Company, the Borrower’s wholly-owned
company, established on April 20, 1998 and operating pursuant to Article 6 of the
Borrower’s Public Companies Law No. 22 of 1997, which registration was published in
the Borrower’s Gazette No. 3718, responsible for the distribution of electricity in the
southern part of the Borrower’s territory, or a successor thereto.

“SEDC Project Management Team” means the team within SEDC, responsible for carrying
out activities under Parts 2 and 3 of the Project.

“SETC” means South Electricity Transmission Company, the Borrower’s wholly-owned
company, established on March 6, 2019 pursuant to Establishment Certificate No. 623 and
operating pursuant to Article 6 of the Borrower’s Public Companies Law No. 22 of 1997,
responsible for the transmission of electricity in the southern part of the Borrower’s
territory, or a successor thereto.

“SETC Project Management Team” means the team within SETC responsible for carrying
out activities under Part 1 of the Project, or a successor thereto.

“Signature Date” means the later of the two (2) dates on which the Borrower and the Bank
signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to “the date of the Loan
Agreement” in the General Conditions.

“Training” means the costs of training under the Project, based on the annual work plans
and budgets referred to in Section I.C of the Schedule to the Project Agreement as approved
by the Bank, and attributable to seminars, workshops, and study tours, along with domestic
and international travel and subsistence allowances for training participants, services of
trainers, rental of training facilities, preparation and reproduction of training materials, and
other activities directly related to course preparation and implementation.
