Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

 

 

LOAN NUMBER 8919-TR

Loan Agreement

(Turkey Irrigation Modernization Project)

between
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated: BE ate A5 , 2019
LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between the REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank’’).

WHEREAS the Republic of Turkey and the Bank, acting as administrator of the Global
Environment Facility Trust Fund, also intend to enter into a grant. agreement (“Global
Environmental Facility Grant Agreement” or “GEF Grant Agreement”) for the purpose of
providing a grant in the amount of two million Dollars (USD 2,000,000) to the Republic of Turkey
to assist in financing Part 2 of the Project, on the terms and conditions set forth in the GEF Grant
Agreement.

NOW, THEREFORE, the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: |

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01. The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to and form
part of this Agreement.

1.02. Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.

ARTICLE II — LOAN

2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of two hundred twenty-two million
three hundred thousand Euros (EUR 222,300,000), as such amount may be converted from
time to time through a Currency Conversion (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project

described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“‘Project’’).

2.02. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section III of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

2.03. The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.

2.04. The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum.on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.

2.05. The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Fixed Spread or such rate as may apply
following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General Conditions.

2.06. The Payment Dates are January 15 and July 15 in each year.

2.07. The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II — PROJECT

3.01.

4.01.

4.02.

5.01.

5.02.

5.03.

The Borrower, through Devlet Su Isleri (“DSI”), declares its commitment to the objective
of the Project. To this end, the Borrower, through DSI, shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: the GEF Grant
Agreement has been executed and delivered and all conditions precedent to the
effectiveness or to the right of the Republic of Turkey to make withdrawals under said GEF
Grant Agreement (other than the effectiveness of this Agreement) have been fulfilled; and

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred twenty (120) days after the Signature
Date.

ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Treasury and Finance.
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) the Borrower’s address is:

Hazine ve Maliye Bakanligi

Inonu Bulvari No. 36

Emek — Ankara

Republic of Turkey; and
(b) the Borrower’s Electronic Address is:

Facsimile:

(90) (312) 204-7366

(90) (312) 204-7367
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) the Bank’s address is:

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development

1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America; and
(b) the Bank’s Electronic Address is:

Telex: Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391

64145(MCI)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
AGREED as of the Signature Date.

REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
. ~~” =
By
_s
Name: A i,
Title: sung 9 Direc Apr Conerei

Date: O { g

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

Authorized Representative

Name: WACWWIZL SAECO
Title: ACKASG- OWE

Date: CEC Cat 2A be ON \G
SCHEDULE 1

Project Description

The objective of the Project is to improve irrigation service delivery, through rehabilitation

and modernization of distribution infrastructure in selected schemes, and through strengthening of
capacity of Water User Associations (““WUAs’).

Part 1.

Fart 2.

The Project consists of the following parts:

Irrigation Systems Modernization

Modernization of irrigation infrastructure, entailing the conversion of open-channel ©
systems of Devlet Su Isleri (“DSI”) to pressurized systems, in irrigation schemes selected
based on terms and criteria satisfactory to the Bank, and related activities, including, inter
alia: (a) the carrying out of upstream consultations with WUAs, and incorporation of said

‘feedback in the final design of schemes; and (b) better coordination with the relevant

departments of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry that work on agriculture and on-
farm services for the implementation of field-level activities.

Innovation and Institutional Support

(a) Designing and Piloting a National Program for the Capacity Building of WUAs.

Provision of support to DSI for the implementation of the nationwide program to
improve the capacity of WUAs for water management, including: (i) upgrading of
national WUAs’ database to allow for performance monitoring on various
dimensions, including operations and maintenance, water conservation, financial
management, governance, monitoring and evaluation, and communications;
(ii) provision of equipment needed by WUAs for their participation in the said
nationwide program; and (iii) training of WUAs to improve technical and financial
management capacity.

(b) Piloting Groundwater Stewardship.

Implementation of a sustainable energy and groundwater management system in
Bolvadin (Afyon), including: (i) provision of low-cost solar energy for irrigation;
and (ii) adoption of measures to increase irrigation efficiency and reliability,
thereby reducing groundwater abstraction and enabling the shift to high-value
crops.

Part 3. Project Management

Provision of goods, technical assistance, and Operating Costs in respect to Project
management, including: (a) supervision of the Project’s technical, safeguards, and
fiduciary aspects; (b) carrying out of Project data collection, monitoring and evaluation;

5
(c) carrying out of dam break analyses, preparation of Land Acquisition Plans, and
conducting of beneficiary satisfaction surveys and ex-post evaluations of Project impact in
selected schemes; and (d) provision of Training.
SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Section I. Implementation Arrangements

Institutional Arrangements.

The Borrower shall assign the overall responsibility for Project implementation to DSI,
which shall be responsible for: (a) the implementation, management, coordination and
oversight of the Project, including the Project’s administrative, procurement,
environmental and social safeguards, disbursement, financial management and monitoring
and evaluation responsibilities, as specified in the Project Operations Manual (“POM”);
(b) the proper application of the Project-related requirements, criteria, policies, procedures
and organizational arrangements set forth in the POM; and (c) the preparation of all Project
implementation documents, including Project supervision reports.

The Borrower, through DSI, shall ensure that DSI maintains at all times staffing, budgetary
resources, and authority necessary and appropriate for satisfactory Project implementation,
all of which shall be acceptable to the Bank.

Project Operations Manual.

The Borrower, through DSI, shall maintain, throughout Project implementation, a POM,
which shall consist of different schedules setting forth rules, methods, guidelines, specific
development plans, standard documents and procedures for the carrying out of the Project.
The POM shall include, inter alia, provisions on the following:

(a) the detailed description of all Project activities supported under this Agreement,
their sequencing and the prospective timetable and benchmarks in relation thereto;

(b) the parties responsible for carrying out the respective parts of the Project;

(c) the detailed qualification and selection criteria and processes, as relevant, for the
respective parts of the Project, including specifically the criteria acceptable to the
Bank for the selection of irrigation schemes under Part 1 of the Project, which shall
include consideration of, inter alia, whether the irrigation scheme (i) has high
irrigation demand and high return on investments, (ii) involves rehabilitation or
modernization, and not development of new irrigation areas, (iii) has design studies
completed or near completion, and (iv) is not located in internationally shared
hydrological basins;

(d) the safeguards instruments and arrangements, including the grievance redress
mechanism, for the Project;

(e) the financial management arrangements for the Project as set forth in a financial
| management manual portion of the POM;
(f) the coordination arrangements between the relevant parties for the day-to-day
execution of the Project; and

(g) Project monitoring, evaluation, reporting, and communications.

The Borrower, through DSI, shall carry out the Project, or cause the Project to be carried
out, in accordance with the arrangements, procedures and guidelines set forth in the POM,
provided, however, that in case of any conflict between the arrangements and procedures
set out in the POM and the provisions of this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement
shall prevail.

The POM, and any provision thereof, shall not be assigned, amended, abrogated or waived,
nor shall be permitted to be assigned, amended, abrogated or waived, without the prior
consent of the Bank; the POM may only be amended in consultation with, and after
approval of, the Bank.

Safeguards.

Without limitation to the provisions of Section 5.01 of the General Conditions, the
Borrower, through DSI, shall carry out the Project, and cause the Project to be carried out,
as the case may be, in accordance with the provisions and recommendations of the
Environmental and Social Management Framework (“ESMF’’) and the Land Acquisition
and Resettlement Policy Framework (“LARPF’’), and to this end, shall maintain throughout
Project implementation, dedicated teams to, respectively, (a) ensure the Project’s
compliance with the ESMF and the subsequently prepared Environmental and Social
Management Plans (““ESMPs”), and (b) carry out any acquisition of land required under
the Project in accordance with the LARPF and the subsequently prepared Land Acquisition
Plans (“LAPs”) and Land Consolidation Action Plan (““LCAP”’), as the case may be, all of
which shall be acceptable to the Bank.

The Borrower, through DSI, shall incorporate within the terms of reference of any technical
services the requirements of the Bank’s Safeguards Policies then in force and ensure that
the Bank’s Safeguard Policies are applied to the advice conveyed through such technical
assistance.

The Borrower, through DSI, shall:

(a) ensure that scheme-specific ESMPs are prepared and completed in a manner
acceptable to the Bank;

(b) ensure that scheme-specific ESMPs are integrated into the relevant bidding
documents during the time of bidding advertisement;

(c) submit to the Bank for its prior approval (i) the proposed design for civil works
under the Project, and (ii) the proposed contract for said works to ensure that the
provisions of the Safeguard Instruments, as relevant, are adequately included in
said contract;
(d) ensure that any contractor carrying out civil works under the Project shall perform
such work in accordance with the technical and environmental practices applicable
to the Project, as set forth in the Safeguard Instruments, and under terms of
reference and with qualifications and experience necessary to satisfactorily carry
out the design and construction of the Project, and all of which shall be acceptable
to the Bank; and

(e) ensure that any contracts for civil works under the Project include Codes of
Conduct in form and substance acceptable to the Bank.

The Borrower, through DSI, shall:

(a) take all necessary actions to minimize, to the extent possible, any Involuntary
Resettlement, in carrying out the Project; and

(b) for this purpose, whenever implementation of Project activities would give rise to
Involuntary Resettlement with respect to civil works related to said activities:
(i) prepare the LAP(s) for sites where pre-screening has identified Involuntary
Resettlement impacts, in accordance with the principles and procedures set forth
in the LARPF; (ii) thereafter, provide said LAP(s) to the Bank for review; and
(iii) commence and implement such works only after completing the
implementation of the relevant parts of the LAP(s) as shall have been accepted by
the Bank as being satisfactory, including, in the case of any Involuntary
Resettlement, to commence the related Project activities only after the respective
Displaced Persons have been compensated in accordance with the relevant LAP(s).

The Borrower, through DSI, shall ensure that the Safeguard Instruments, and any provision
thereof, shall not be amended, suspended, abrogated, terminated or waived or permitted to
be amended, suspended, abrogated, terminated or waived, except with the prior written
consent of the Bank.

The Borrower, through DSI, shall, all in form and substance acceptable to the Bank:
(a) prepare semi-annual ESMP, LAP, and LCAP monitoring reports; and

(b) by no later than six (6) months before the Closing Date, submit to the Bank the
LAP and LCAP completion report, which details the land acquisition, land
consolidation, and asset loss that have occurred within the scope of the Project.

The Borrower, through DSI, shall, throughout Project implementation, maintain and
publicize the availability of a Project feedback and grievance redress mechanism, as set
forth in the ESMF and LARPF, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, to hear and
determine fairly and in good faith all feedback and complaints raised in relation to the
Project, and take all measures necessary to implement the determinations made by said
feedback and grievance redress mechanism, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.

The Borrower, through DSI, shall:
(a)

(b)

(c)

as soon as reasonably practicable, but no later than seven (7) calendar days after
the occurrence of a Significant Event, inform the Bank by any electronic means
of the nature of the incident, accident, or circumstance and any effect or impact
(whether on-site or off-site) resulting or likely to result therefrom;

as soon as reasonably practicable, but no later than thirty (30) calendar days after
such Significant Event, provide the Bank with a summary report that includes a
description of such Significant Event, and the measures, if any, that the Borrower
is taking or plans to take to address such Significant Event and to prevent any
future similar event; and

keep the Bank informed of the on-going implementation of the said measures and
plans.

D. Safety of Dams.

To ensure the proper management and safety of the dams supplying water to the selected
irrigation schemes under the Project, the Borrower, through DSI, shall:

(a)

(b)

Section II.

have DSI experts acceptable to the Bank, carry out a safety inspection of each of
the above-mentioned dams at intervals of not less than once every year, during the
implementation of the Project; the first of said safety inspections shall be carried
out not later than December 31, 2019; and

not later than December 31, 2021, in accordance with terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank, and all to the satisfaction of the Bank (i) prepare updated
operation and maintenance plans and emergency preparedness plans for the above-
mentioned dams, (ii) furnish said plans to the Bank for its review, and (iii) adopt
and implement said plans, which shall take into account the views of the Bank.

Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank each Project Report not later than forty-five (45)
days after the end of each six-month period, covering such period.

Section III.

Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

A. General.

Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and in
accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the Borrower may
withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to finance Eligible Expenditures in the amount allocated
and, if applicable, up to the percentage set forth against each Category of the following

table:

10
      
  

Category Amount of the Loan Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated to be financed
expressed in EUR) (inclusive of Taxes)

222,300,000 100%

  
    
 
   
   
   
 
 
   
   
    
  
   

| (1) Goods, works, non-
consulting services,
consulting services,
Operating Costs, and
Training for Parts 1 and 3 of
the Project.

 

  

(2) Goods, works, non-
consulting services,
consulting services, and
Training for Part 2 of the
Project.

TOTAL AMOUNT

B. Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.

   

222,300,000

l. Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A above, no withdrawal shall be made:
(a) for payments made prior to the Signature Date; or

(b) for payments made to finance any Project activity under Category (2) that the Bank
has financed or agreed to finance under the GEF Grant Agreement.

2 The Closing Date is February 27, 2026.

1]
SCHEDULE 3
Commitment-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage of the
total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date (“Installment Share”).

   

Level Principal Repayments

Principal Payment Date Installment Share

9.09%
2 9.1

On July 15, 2029 |

   
  

  
   
 

On each January15 and July 15
Beginning July 15, 2024,
through January 15, 2029

 
 
  
 

12
a

APPENDIX

Definitions

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and Corruption
in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants’’, dated October 15, 2006,
and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section III.A of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.

“Codes of Conduct” means the codes of conduct referred to in Section 1.C.3 (e) of
Schedule 2, detailing, inter alia, measures on environment, health and safety, and
preventing and responding to matters of violence (e.g., gender-based, and against minors).

“Devlet Su Isleri” or “DSI” means the General Directorate of State Hydraulic Works, the
Borrower’s primary executive state agency established by the Law 6200 (published in the
Official Gazette dated December 25, 1953, and amended by the Presidential Decree No. 4
published in the Official Gazette dated July 15, 2018), under the aegis of the Ministry of
Agriculture and Forestry, to be responsible for water resources planning, development and
management, including the irrigation schemes within the Borrower’s territory, or any legal
successor or successors thereto.

“Displaced Persons” means persons who, as a result of the execution of the Project, would
be subject to Involuntary Resettlement; “Displaced Person” means any of such Displaced
Persons.

“Environmental and Social Management Framework” or ““ESMF” means the framework
prepared by the Borrower and disclosed by the Borrower on its website on August 30,
2018, and in the Bank’s website on September 5, 2018, which framework sets forth, inter
alia, policies and procedures for screening of proposed Project activities, preparation of
environmental assessment and environment management plans therefor, consultation and
disclosure and monitoring and reporting during the implementation of the Project, as said
framework may be amended from time to time with the prior concurrence of the Bank.

“Environmental and Social Management Plan” or “ESMP” means a site-specific
environmental management plan, prepared in accordance with the ESMF and the
provisions of Section I.C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and acceptable to the Bank, and
giving details the specific actions, measures and policies designed to facilitate the
achievement of the objective of the ESMF.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project Financing”, dated
July 14, 2017.

“Global Environment Facility Grant Agreement” or “GEF Grant Agreement” means the
grant agreement referred to in the preamble of this Agreement, as such agreement may be

13
10.

11.

12:

13.

14.

15.

16.

id

amended from time to time. “GEF Grant Agreement” includes all appendices, schedules
and agreements supplemental to the GEF Grant Agreement.

“Involuntary Resettlement” means any direct economic and social impact caused by:
(a) the involuntary taking of land resulting in (i) relocation or loss of shelter, (ii) loss of
assets or access to assets, and (iii) loss of income sources or means of livelihood, whether
or not the affected persons must move to another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction
of access to legally designated parks and protected areas resulting in adverse impacts on
the livelihoods of such person.

“Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework” or “LARPF” means the Land
Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework prepared by the Borrower and disclosed
in the Borrower’s website on August 8, 2018, and the Bank’s website on August 8, 2018,
which framework sets out the policies and procedures for land acquisition, land
consolidation, resettlement, compensation and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons,
preparation of resettlement and land consolidation action plans therefor, consultation,
disclosure, grievance redress, and monitoring and reporting during Project implementation,
as said framework may be revised from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank.

“Land Acquisition Plans” or “LLAPs” means site-specific resettlement action plans relating
to land acquisition and/or resettlement or economic displacement of Displaced Persons, as
the case may be, prepared in accordance with the LARPF and the provisions of
Section I.C.4 (b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and acceptable to the Bank.

“Land Consolidation Acquisition Plan” or “LCAP” means the site-specific action plan,
prepared in accordance with the LARPF, that (a) specify the procedures to be followed and
the actions that will be taken to mitigate adverse effects of land consolidation activities of
the Project; (b) defines how to compensate person(s) affected by land consolidation for any
related losses; and (c) sets out the development benefits for persons and communities
affected by the consolidation.

“Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry” means the Borrower’s ministry of the same name
or any legal successor or successors thereto.

“Ministry of Treasury and Finance” means the Borrower’s ministry of the same name or
any legal successor or successors thereto.

“Operating Costs” means reasonable incremental expenses directly incurred in respect to
Project implementation, management and monitoring, including office supplies,
publication of procurement notices, communication, translation and interpretation,
publication fees, and other miscellaneous expenses directly associated with the Project and
agreed between the Bank and the Borrower, but excluding salaries of officials and
employees of the Borrower.

“Procurement Regulations” means, for purposes of paragraph 85 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the ““World Bank Procurement Regulations for IPF Borrowers”, dated
July 2016, revised November 2017.

14
18.

19;

20.

21.

zm:

2:

“Project Operations Manual” or “POM” means the Project Operations Manual referred to
in Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the said manual may be amended from
time to time, with the prior written approval of the Bank, and such term includes any
schedules to the POM.

“Safeguard Instruments” means, collectively, the ESMF, LARPF, and, as relevant, any
ESMP(s), LAP(s), and LCAP.

“Signature Date” means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the Bank
signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to “the date of the Loan
Agreement” in the General Conditions.

“Significant Event” means: (a) any significant social, labor, health and safety, security or
environmental incident, accident, or circumstance involving the Project, including, without
limitation, explosions, spills, and any workplace accidents that result in death, serious or
multiple injury, material pollution, or any violent labor unrest or dispute between the
Borrower or security forces (assigned to protect the Project) and local communities; or
(b) any other event or circumstance having, or which could reasonably be expected to have,
a material adverse effect on the implementation or operation of the Project in accordance
with the Safeguard Instruments.

“Training” means the reasonable costs directly associated with training and workshops,
including travel and subsistence for training and workshop participants, costs associated
with securing the services of trainers, rental of training and workshop facilities, preparation
and reproduction of training and workshop materials, and other costs directly related to
training course or workshop (but excluding costs of consulting services and any costs
financed by other donors and financing sources).

“Water User Associations” means the public entities established by Law 6172, published
in the Official Gazette dated March 22, 2011, or any legal successor or successors thereto.

15
