Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

Pp pea fs Lm, np PF 5
> yeaes Soe § ; fF 5
5 & 1a Par, &
7 > » §
” & B Nes EL A Bee

XN LT TR APTAPTO
Pa ORG ; Ee eo a
. Ss a Xf Caw | a ae | = i 3 J

 

 

LOAN NUMBER 9010-MK

Loan Agreement

(Public Finance and Competitiveness Development Policy Loan)
between
REPUBLIC OF NORTH MACEDONIA
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between REPUBLIC OF NORTH
MACEDONIA (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank’’) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the
Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Bank has decided to provide
this financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (i) the actions which the Borrower has already
taken under the Program and which are described in Section I.A of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and (ii) the Borrower’s maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic policy
framework. The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows:

1.01.

1.02.

2.01.

2.02.

ads

2.04.

2.05.

2.06.

2.07.

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to
and form part of this Agreement.

Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.

ARTICLE II — LOAN

The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of one hundred and
twenty-five million Euro (EUR 125,000,000), as such amount may be converted
from time to time through a Currency Conversion (“Loan”).

The Front-end Fee is one-quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.

The Commitment Charge is one-quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.

The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Fixed Spread or such rate as may
apply following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General
Conditions.

The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.

Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.05 of the General Conditions,
the Borrower shall promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the
provisions of this Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request.
3.01.

4.01.

4.02.

5.01.

5.02.

ARTICLE III — PROGRAM

The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation. To
this end, and further to Section 5.05 of the General Conditions:

(a) the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either
party, exchange views on the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy
framework and the progress achieved in carrying out the Program; and

(b) without limitation upon paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall
promptly inform the Bank of any situation that would have the effect of
materially reversing the objectives of the Program or any action taken

under the Program including any action specified in Section I of Schedule
1 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK.

The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely a situation
has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part
of it, will be carried out.

The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely any event
specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period
of 30 days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower.

ARTICLE V —EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that
the Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out
the Program and with the adequacy of the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy

framework.

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the Signature Date.
6.01.

6.02.

6.03.

ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Finance.

For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Borrower’s
address is:

Ministry of Finance

Dame Gruev 12

Skopje, 1000

Republic of North Macedonia

(b) the Borrower’s Electronic Address is:

Facsimile: E-mail:
+ 389 2 3255-721 cabinet@finance.gov.mk

For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Bank’s address
is:

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America; and

(b) the Bank’s Electronic Address is:
Telex: Facsimile: E-mail:

248423(MCI) or ~— 1-202-477-6391 =mmantovanelli@worldbank.org
64145(MCI)
AGREED as of the Signature Date.

REPUBLIC OF NORTH MACEDONIA

By

     

Authorized Representative

Name: Nii Vit ANMEL Ic O\J 61H
Tite: Hioieree oF Fiunnice

Date: OCCOHG 1d, 2019

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By

   

orized Representative

Name: CY (4c WLO LEE @
Title: W\CE PRET voentT.
Date: OCMOILER Ad 2OAD
Section I.

A.

SCHEDULE 1

Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds

Actions under the Program

The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following,
namely the Borrower has:

l.

Enacted amendments to the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, the
amendments to the Law on Compulsory Capitally Funded Pension
Insurance, and the amendments to the Law on Compulsory Social
Insurance Contributions to introduce price indexation of benefits,
harmonize the accrual rates, and introduce a higher pension contribution
rate to improve fiscal and social sustainability of the multi-pillar pension
system as evidenced by Official Gazette No. 245/18 dated December 28,
2018 and Official Gazette No. 247/18 dated December 31, 2018.

Enacted the Law on Social Protection and the amendments to the Law on
Child Protection to consolidate social assistance benefits, expand the
coverage of the bottom quintile and protect the energy poor, while
maintaining good targeting accuracy, through the introduction of a
guaranteed minimum assistance program, as. evidenced by Official
Gazette No. 104/2019 dated May 23, 2019.

Enacted the Law on Reporting and Monitoring the Liabilities to effectively
identify and monitor arrears of the Borrower’s general government as
evidenced by Official Gazette No. 64/2018 dated April 11, 2018 and
launched the quarterly publication of reported arrears from September
2018 as evidenced at the Ministry of Finance website link:
https://finance.gov.mk/mk/node/7317.

Enacted the Law on Personal Income Tax to introduce progressive rate of
18 percent, remove exemption on capital income taxation and increase the
rate to 15 percent, and reduce the allowed tax deductions, while increasing
the personal tax allowance to protect the low-income households, as
evidenced by Official Gazette No 241/18 dated December 26, 2018.

Enacted Law on Excises that introduces excises on coal, gas and
electricity, as evidenced by Official Gazette No. 108/19 dated May 28,
2019.

Enacted the Energy Law to deregulate electricity generation, open the
electricity supply market for all customers, and introduce competitive-
based support mechanism for renewable energy generation, as evidenced
by Official Gazette No. 96/2018 dated May 28, 2018.

a Enacted the Public Procurement Law to strengthen transparency and
increase private sector competition in public procurement, as evidenced
by Official Gazette No. 24/2019 dated February 1, 2019.

8. Enacted the Inspection Supervision Law to introduce: (a) risk-based
inspections, (b) a provision for inspectors to issue warnings, and (c) a
grace period for businesses to correct first-time infractions, as evidenced
by Official Gazette No. 102/2019 dated May 22, 2019.

Section II. Availability of Loan Proceeds

A. General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank
may specify by notice to the Borrower.

B. Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan (except for amounts required to pay the
Front-end Fee) is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche, from which the
Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds. The allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below:

     

Amount of the Loan
Allocations Allocated
expressed in Euro)

(1) Single Withdrawal Tranche 124,687,500
(2) Front-end Fee 312,500 |

(3) Amount due pursuant to Section
4.05 (c) of the General Conditions

TOTAL AMOUNT 125,000,000

      
     
        

     

i Deposit of Loan Amounts

1. Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 2.03 of the General Conditions,
(a) the Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the first request
for withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter maintain a dedicated
account in Euro (“Foreign Currency Dedicated Account’’)”; and

(b) all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into
the Foreign Currency Dedicated Account.

The Borrower, within fifteen (15) days after the withdrawal of the Loan from the
Loan Account, shall report to the Bank: (a) the exact sum received into the Foreign
Currency Dedicated Account opened in the National Bank of the Republic of North
Macedonia; (b) the details of the account to which the Macedonian Denars
equivalent of the Loan proceeds will be credited; (c) the record that an equivalent
amount has been accounted for in the Borrower’s budget management systems;
and (d) the statement of receipts and disbursement of the Foreign Currency
Dedicated Account.

Closing Date. The Closing Date is May 31, 2020.
SCHEDULE 2

Commitment-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage
of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date
(“Installment Share”’).

Level Principal Repayments

Principal Payment Date Installment Share

On each May 15 and November 15

Beginning November 15, 2023 6.25%
through May 15, 2031

 
APPENDIX

Definitions

l.

2.

“Dedicated Account” means the Foreign Currency Dedicated Account.

“Foreign Currency Dedicated Account” means the account referred to in
Part C.1(a) of Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Development Policy
Financing”, dated December 14, 2018.

“Macedonian Denars” mean the Borrower’s local currency.

“Program” means: the program of objectives, policies, and actions set forth or
referred to in the letter dated August 14, 2019 from the Borrower to the Bank
declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and
requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its execution
and comprising actions taken, including those set forth in Section I of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, and actions to be taken consistent with the program’s
objectives.

“Signature Date” means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the
Bank signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to “the
date of the Loan Agreement” in the General Conditions.

“Single Withdrawal Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the
category entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of
Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
