Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

 

 

LOAN NUMBER 8936-YF

Loan Agreement

(Tax Administration Modernization Project)

between
REPUBLIC OF SERBIA
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between REPUBLIC OF SERBIA

(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:

1.01.

1.02.

271.

2.02.

2:03.

2.04.

2.05.

2.06.

2.07.

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to
and form part of this Agreement.

Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IT — LOAN
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of forty-five million three
hundred thousand Euros (€45,300,000), as such amount may be converted from
time to time through a Currency Conversion (“Loan”), to assist in financing the

project described in Schedule | to this Agreement (“Project”).

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.

The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.

The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Fixed Spread or such rate as may
apply following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General
Conditions.

The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
Sil de

4.01.

4.02.

5.01.

6.01.

6.02,

ARTICLE III — PROJECT

The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower, through STA, shall carry out the Project in accordance with the
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK

The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that the Project
Implementing Entity’s Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed, or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the Project
Implementing Entity to perform any of its obligations under the Project.

The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, that the event specified
in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of sixty
(60) days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower.

ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and eighty (180) days after the
Signature Date.

ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
The Borrower’s Representative, who, inter alia, may agree to modification of the
provisions of this Agreement on behalf of the Borrower through exchange of letters

(unless otherwise determined by the Borrower and the Bank), is its Minister of Finance.

For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Borrower’s
address is:

Ministry of Finance

20 Kneza Milosa St.
11000 Belgrade
Republic of Serbia; and

(b) the Borrower’s Electronic Address is:

Facsimile: E-mail:
(381-11) 3618-961 kabinet@mfin.gov.rs
6.03. For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Bank’s address is:

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America; and

(b) the Bank’s Electronic Address is:

Telex: Facsimile: E-mail:
248423(MCI) or ‘1-202-477-6391 sndegwa@worldbank.org
64145(MCI)

AGREED as of the Signature Date.
REPUBLIC OF SERBIA

By

 

Name: SINUS HACC
Title: M(NIiSRAC OF FiIMmUCE
Date: OF. OT: 20f9.

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT wh

 
    

By
orized Representative
Name: STEPHEN NDEGWA

Title: COUNTRY MANA GK
By

SCHEDULE 1

Project Description

The objective of the project is to improve effectiveness of tax collection and lower

the compliance burden for taxpayers.

The Project consists of the following parts:

Component 1: Legal Environment

Provision of support to remove impediments in the Borrower’s legal framework to

ensure effective functioning of STA, focusing on tax laws and regulations and information
governance and exchange, including, inter alia:

(a)

(b)

(c)

the carrying out of an analysis of the Borrower’s national legal framework on:
(i) recognition of digital documents for judicial purposes; (ii) document retention
and records management; and (iii) information exchange between STA, other
government agencies and third parties;

the development of a procedural framework for automatic exchange of information
with EU member states; and

the review of the Borrower’s legal framework to: (i) align the existing Borrower’s
laws with European Union standards; (ii) develop options to strengthen legislation
and administrative practice to counter risks of profit shifting and base erosion for
the Borrower’s tax base; and (iii) provide recommendations for closing loopholes
in tax laws and bylaws and improving implementing regulations.

Component 2: STA Organization and Operations

(a)

(b)

Provision of support for: (i) the reform of STA’s human resource function to
streamline its inefficient human resource support system; and (ii) the development
and implementation of specifications for the enhancement of STA’s existing
human resources management information system to make it fully functioning, in
line with international standards.

Provision of support for: (i) the carrying out of business process reengineering to
enable institutional, legal and procedural improvements in the Borrower’s tax
administration; and (ii) the implementation of an effective tax compliance
management system, including the development of methodologies and
strengthening of the Borrower’s tax administration capacity in functional areas,
including, inter alia, tax return and payment processing, enforcement and
ar

(c)

compliance, tax audit, risk analysis, appeals process, internal control and audit, tax
gap, and revenue estimation.

Provision of support for the modernization of taxpayer services with a view to
increase the taxpayers’ understanding of revenue laws and procedures, taxpayers’
rights and obligations, including the provision of comprehensive e-services for
taxpayers.

Component 3: ICT System and Records Management Modernization

(a)

(b)

(c)

(i) provision of support for the modernization of the STA’s tax administration ICT
system; (ii) implementation of an e-fiscalization system, including the acquisition
of an e-cash register software product and carrying out of Training to address the
recording gap for cash transactions; (iii) upgrade of the STA’s ICT infrastructure
and provision of other software; and (iv) the carrying out of third-party data
security audit.

(i) provision of support for the development of STA’s data warehouse, including
the establishment of protocols for data exchange between the STA, other
government bodies and third parties; (ii) the strengthening of the capacity of STA
staff to mine data effectively from the data warehouse for risk assessment and other
needs; and (iii) the development of a taxpayer register enabling interface with other
systems.

Developing solutions to build records management capacity, clear paper records
backlogs and provide systematic solutions for future records management through
an information governance model.

Component 4: Project Management and Change Management

Provision of cross-cutting support to activities in Components | to 3 of the Project,

including: (a) the establishment of the PIU and strengthening of the CFU’s capacity; (b) the
carrying out of internal and external stakeholder communication; and (c) the provision of
change management support to implementation teams within STA.
SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Section I. Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional Arrangements

I;

Without limitation to the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall maintain throughout
Project implementation, with composition, resources, terms of reference, and
functions acceptable to the Bank:

(a) a Project implementation unit within STA (PIU), to be responsible for:
(i) the overall coordination of all Project implementation activities;
(ii) ensuring that the requirements, criteria, policies, procedures, and
organizational arrangements set forth in the Project Operations Manual are
applied in carrying out the Project; (iii) preparation of all Project
implementation documents, including Project supervision reports, and
(iv) monitoring and evaluation of the Project; and

(b) a Central Fiduciary Unit (CFU), within MoF, to be responsible for the
procurement and financial management of the Project, as detailed in the
Project Operations Manual.

Unless otherwise agreed with the Bank, not later than one (1) month after the
Effective Date, the Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain throughout
Project implementation: (a) a Project Steering Committee; and (b) an Advisory
Committee; all with responsibilities, composition and functions as set forth in the
Project Operations Manual.

Unless otherwise agreed with the Bank, not later than October 31, 2019, the
Borrower, through STA, shall inform the Bank which technical modality has been
selected for the carrying out of the modernization of the STA’s tax administration
ICT system, under Component 3(a)(i) of the Project.

Unless otherwise agreed with the Bank, not later than November 30, 2019, the
Borrower shall hire the following additional staff for the CFU: (a) a procurement
specialist; and (b) a financial management specialist, all with terms of reference
and qualifications acceptable to the Bank.
Project Operations Manual

The Borrower, through the PIU and CFU, shall carry out the Project in accordance
with the provisions of a manual (the Project Operations Manual), in a manner and
with contents acceptable to the Bank, including inter alia: (a) the indicators to be
used in the monitoring and evaluation of the Project; (b) the procedures for Project
monitoring, supervision and evaluation, including the format and content of the
Project Reports; (c) the composition, rules of operation, and responsibilities of the
Steering Committee and the Advisory Committee; and (d) the procurement and
financial management procedures.

Except as the Bank may otherwise agree in writing, the Borrower shall not
abrogate, amend, suspend, waive, or otherwise fail to enforce the Project
Operations Manual or any provision thereof.

In case of any conflict between the terms of the Project Operations Manual and
those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.

Safeguards
The Borrower, through STA, shall ensure that:

(a) the Project is carried out with due regard to appropriate health, safety,
social, and environmental practices and standards, and in accordance
with the Safeguards Instruments;

(b) for each activity under the Project for which the ESMF and the RPF
provide for the preparation of an ESMP and/or a RAP:

(1) proceed to have such ESMP and RAP as appropriate:
(A) prepared and disclosed in accordance with the ESMF and
the RPF, respectively; (B) consulted upon adequately with
people affected by the Project as per the ESMF and the RPP,
respectively, and submitted to the Bank for review and
approval; and (C) thereafter adopted, prior to implementation
of the activity; and

(11) take such measures as shall be necessary or appropriate to
ensure compliance with the requirements of such ESMP and
RAP in a manner satisfactory to the Bank;
(c) all measures are taken to implement the RAPs in a manner and
timeframe satisfactory to the Bank. To this end, the Borrower shall
ensure that:

(i) Funds are made available to cover all the costs of implementing
the RAPs.

(ii) Prior to carrying out activities which involve displacement,
Affected Persons shall be compensated at full replacement cost,
resettled and provided with resettlement assistant in accordance
with the Subproject RAPs, as applicable; and

(iii) | the implementation, monitoring and evaluation of such RAPs
is completed and reported in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.

The Borrower, through STA, shall ensure that the obligation to comply with
the relevant Safeguard Instruments is incorporated: (a) in the contracts between
the Borrower and the relevant contractors and any entity (including any
engineer) supervising the Project’s civil works; and (b) in the contracts between
the relevant contractors and the contractors’ subcontractors.

Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, through STA, shall
ensure, and cause to ensure, that none of the provisions of the Safeguard
Instruments is abrogated, amended, repealed, suspended, or waived. In case of
any inconsistencies between the provisions of any of the Safeguard Instruments
and the provisions of this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall
prevail.

The Borrower, through STA, shall ensure that: (a) all consultancies related to
technical assistance, design and capacity building under the Project, the
application of whose results could have environmental, social and health and
safety implications, shall only be undertaken pursuant to terms of reference
reviewed and found satisfactory by the Bank; and (b) such terms of reference
shall require the technical assistance, design and capacity building activities to
take into account the requirements of the applicable Bank Safeguards Policies
and EHS Guidelines.

The Borrower, through STA, shall maintain, throughout Project
implementation, and publicize the availability of a grievance redress
mechanism, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, to hear and
determine fairly and in good faith all complaints raised in relation to the
Project, and take all measures necessary to implement the determinations made
by such mechanism in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.

Section II. Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation

The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank each Project Report not later than one
month after the end of each calendar semester, covering the calendar semester.

Section ITI. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
Tie General

Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and
in accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the Borrower
may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to: (a) finance Eligible Expenditures; and (b) pay
the Front-end Fee; in the amount allocated and, if applicable, up to the percentage set forth
against each Category of the following table:

  
  
  
   
 

  
  
 
 
  
  
 

   

Amount of the Percentage of Expenditures

    

    
 

Loan to be financed
Category Allocated (inclusive of Taxes other
(expressed in than Value Added Tax and

EUR

 

(1)Goods, works, non-consulting
services, consulting services,
Training and Operating Costs

for the Project

  
  

  
   
 
    

45,186,750 100%

   
  
 
     

Amount payable pursuant to
Section 2.03 of this Agreement
in accordance with

Section 2.07 (b) of the General
Conditions

   

  
 
  
 

(2)Front-end Fee 113,250

  
 

   

45,300,000

TOTAL AMOUNT

For the purpose of this table, the custom duties and value added tax for the
importation and supply of goods and services, within the Borrower’s territory and for the
purpose of the implementation of the Project, shall not be financed out of Loan proceeds.
The Borrower confirms that the importation and supply of goods and services, within the
Borrower’s territory and for the purpose of the implementation of the Project, shall be
exempted from customs duties and value added tax.
-10-

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A above, no withdrawal shall be made for
payments made prior to the Signature Date, except that withdrawals up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed Euro 500,000 may be made for payments made
prior to this date but on or after February 7, 2019, for Eligible Expenditures. In
accordance with Section 5.13 of the General Conditions, said Eligible
Expenditures shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in the Procurement Regulations and the provisions of the Procurement
Plan.

The Closing Date is October 31, 2024.
-ll-

SCHEDULE 3
Commitment-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment
Date (“Installment Share’).

Level Principal Repayments

Principal Payment Date Installment Share

On each May 15 and November 15

Beginning May 15, 2024
through November 15, 2033

        
 
    
 
   
-12-

APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

l.

“Advisory Committee” means the committee referred to in section I.A.2 (ii) of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Affected Person” means a person or entity who, on account of the execution of
the Project, has experienced or would experience direct economic and social
impacts caused by: (a) the involuntary taking of land resulting in: (1) relocation or
loss of shelter; (11) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iil) loss of income sources
or means of livelihood, whether or not such person must move to another location;
or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and protected
areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such person; and, “Affected
Persons”, means more than one such Affected Person.

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix
to the General Conditions, the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud
and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”,
dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section III.A of Schedule 2
to this Agreement.

“CFU” means the unit referred to in Section I.A.1(b) of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.

“EHS Guidelines” means the World Bank Group Environmental, Health and
Safety Guidelines published on www.ifc.org/ehsguidelines, as said guidelines are
updated from time to time.

“Environmental and Social Management Framework” or “ESMF” means the
environmental and social management framework, prepared by the STA,
satisfactory to the Bank, and disclosed on the Bank’s website on January 22, 2019,
setting out the principles, rules, guidelines, and procedures to screen and assess the
environmental and social impacts (including health and safety issues) of the
activities which will be identified and appraised during Project implementation,
and containing measures and plans to avoid, minimize, mitigate, and/or offset
adverse impacts and/or reduce said adverse impacts to acceptable levels, and
enhance positive impacts, provisions for estimating and budgeting the costs of such
measures, and information on the agency or agencies responsible for addressing
project impacts, as said instrument may be amended from time to time with the
Bank’s prior written agreement.
10.

14.

18.

“Environmental and Social Management Plan” or “ESMP” means the plans to be
prepared, as required, satisfactory to the Bank, and to be disclosed on the
Borrower’s website during the implementation of the Project, which details (a) the
measures to be taken during the implementation and operation of the Project to
avoid, minimize, mitigate, or offset adverse environmental and social impacts
(including health and safety issues), or to reduce them to acceptable levels; and (b)
the actions needed to implement these measures, as said instrument may be
amended from time to time with the Bank’s prior written agreement.

“EU” means the European Union.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project
Financing”, dated December 14, 2018.

“ICT” means information and communications technology.
“Implementing Entity” means STA (as defined below).

“Implementing Entity’s Legislation” means the Borrower’s Law on Tax Procedure
and Tax Administration, as amended, duly published in the RS Official Gazette
No. 80/2002, 84/2002, 23/2003, 70/2003, 55/2004, 61/2005, 85/2005, 62/2006,
63/2006, 61/2007, 20/2009, 72/2009, 53/2010, 101/2011, 2/2012, 93/2012,
47/2013, 108/2013, 68/2014, 105/2014, 91/2015, 112/2015, 15/2016, 108/2016,
30/2018, and 95/2018.

“MoF” means the Borrower’s ministry of finance, or any successor thereto.

"Operating Costs" means expenditures incurred by the Borrower, through STA, on
account of the Project implementation, including, inter alia, expenditures for office
supplies, utilities, bank charges, communication tools, advertisement fees,
translation and interpretation services, car rental and fuel costs, office rental and
maintenance, moving expenses, equipment insurance, maintenance and repair,
printing and publications, salaries, travel per diem allowances and accommodation
costs for CFU staff, including taxes and social contributions but excluding salaries
for the Borrower's civil servants.

“PIU” means the Project implementation unit referred to in Section I.A.1(a) of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Procurement Regulations” means, for purposes of paragraph 85 of the Appendix
to the General Conditions, the “World Bank Procurement Regulations for IPF
Borrowers”, dated July 2016, revised November 2017 and August 2018.
Lo.

20.

pas

bikes

ass

24.

20.

26.

21.

-14-

“Project Implementing Entity” means STA.

“Project Operations Manual” means the manual referred to in Section I.B of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Resettlement Action Plan” or “RAP” means the instrument to be prepared in
accordance with the procedures and requirements of the Resettlement Policy
Framework, which includes the principles, procedures, organizational
arrangements, and budget to implement the resettlement related activities under
the Project, as said resettlement action plan may be revised from time to time with
the prior written agreement of the Bank and “ RAPs” means, collectively, all such
RAPs.

“Resettlement Policy Framework” or “RPF” means the resettlement policy
framework prepared and adopted by the STA, satisfactory to the Bank, and
disclosed on the Bank’s website on February 5, 2019, which sets out the
resettlement principles, organizational arrangements (including consultation and
budget), and design criteria to be applied to resettlement related Project activities
to be prepared during Project implementation, as such framework may be amended
from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank.

“Safeguard Instruments” means collectively, the ESMF, ESMP, RPF and RAP;
“Safeguard Instrument” means any of such Safeguards Instruments.

“Safeguard Policies” means, the Operational Policies (Ops) and Bank Procedures
(BPs) of the Bank, namely OP/BP 4.01 (Environmental Assessment), OP/BP 4.11
(Physical Cultural Resources) and OP/BP 4.12 (Involuntary Resettlement); they
can be found at https://policies.worldbank.org.

“Signature Date” means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the
Bank signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to “the
date of the Loan Agreement” in the General Conditions.

“STA” means Serbian Tax Administration, a government body within the MoF,
established pursuant to the Implementing Entity’s Legislation, or any successor
thereto acceptable to the Bank.

“Steering Committee” means the committee referred to in Section I.A.2(a) of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

"Training" means Project related study tours, training courses, seminars,
workshops, and other training activities, including costs of training materials,
space and equipment rental, travel, accommodation, and per diem costs of trainees
and trainers, trainers’ fees, and other training related miscellaneous costs.
