Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

LOAN NUMBER 8965-BY

Loan Agreement

(Utility Efficiency and Quality Improvement Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BELARUS
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between REPUBLIC OF

BELARUS (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:

1.01.

1.02.

2.01.

2.02.

2.03.

2.04.

2.05,

2.06.

2.07.

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to
and form part of this Agreement.

Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.

ARTICLE II — LOAN

The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of ninety million Euro
(€90,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project’’).

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower’s Representative for purposes
of taking any action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this Section is
the Borrower’s Minister of Housing and Utilities.

The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.

The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.

The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Variable Spread or such rate as
may apply following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General
Conditions.

The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
SUL.

4.01.

4.02.

5.01.

5.02.

ARTICLE IIT — PROJECT

The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK

The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that the
organizational documents of the Project Coordinating Team (PCT) have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or not enforced, in such a
manner so as to affect materially and adversely, in the opinion of the Bank, the
ability of PCT to carry out the Project.

The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that the
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a
period of sixty (60) days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to
the Borrower.

ARTICLE V —EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that
the Borrower has adopted a Presidential decree successor to Presidential Decree
417 dated August 12, 2008 which established the Project Coordinating Team
(PCT), assuring the continuity of the functions of the PCT in respect of the Project.

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and twenty (120) days after
the Signature Date.
6.01.

6.02.

6.03.

ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

Except as provided in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower’s
Representative is its Deputy Prime Minister in charge of the housing and
utilities sector, or any successor thereto.

For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Borrower’s
address is:

Council of Ministers of the Republic of Belarus
House of Government

Minsk, 220010

Sovetskaya Str.11

Republic of Belarus; and

(b) the Borrower’s Electronic Address is:

Facsimile: E-mail:
375 17 2226665 contact@government.by

For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Bank’s address
is:

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America; and

(b) the Bank’s Electronic Address is:
Telex: Facsimile: E-mail:

248423(MCI) or ——1-202-477-6391 —akremer@worldbank.org
64145(MCI)
AGREED as of the Signature Date.

REPUBLIC OF BELARUS |
By

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT

     
  

; weer

are lere chev
Rousing and tilitits

    

   

By

 
  

Authorized Representative
Name: ff lex aM der fremee
Title: ( Ounkry Lama Gen 404 foelareac

Date: Ju My é 1, AOD 19
SCHEDULE 1

Project Description

The objective of the Project is to improve the quality and efficiency of water and
wastewater services, and support the introduction of regional solid waste management.

The Project consists of the following parts:

Part 1. Improving Water and Wastewater Services

Support for the:

(a) preparation of UPIPs (Utility Performance Improvement Plans);

(b) implementation of performance improvement measures identified in
UPIPs, and

(c) construction, upgrading and modernization of water and wastewater

services infrastructure, including water treatment and distribution facilities
and wastewater collection and treatment facilities.

Part 2. Strengthening Utility Performance

Support to the strengthening of national and local water services institutions

including through the:

(a) development of a utility-level information collection and analysis
platform;

(b) strengthening Borrower’s water utility sector regulatory framework;

(c) development of guidelines and standards for performance criteria for
service providers;

(d) development of the customer services of water utilities and citizen
engagement and public dissemination of information;

(e) installation of a remote meter reading system to collect data from
individual water meters;

(f) development and carrying out of capacity building and knowledge sharing
activities for participating water utilities based on existing best practices;
and

(g) carrying out of preparatory investment studies, including site selection

studies, feasibility and detailed design studies, ESIAs, and RAPs.
Part 3. Enhancing Solid Waste Management Process

Support for the:

(a)

(b)

(c)

(i) construction of Polotsk/Novopolotsk Regional Landfill, including
through the carrying of civil works for associated infrastructure including
transfer stations and provision of equipment for waste collection,
transportation and handling; (ii) carrying out of the closure and
remediation of the existing Polotsk landfill; (111) development of detailed
designs for activities under (i) and (ii) above; and (iv) carrying out of
associated construction management and investment monitoring;

(i) carrying out of preparatory investment studies, including site selection
studies, feasibility and detailed design studies, ESIAs, and RAPs; and (i1)
construction of RLFs (other than under (a)(i) above), comprising through
the carrying out of civil works for associated infrastructure including
transfer stations, material recovery facilities, dumpsite closures and
provision of equipment for waste collection, transportation and handling,
and carrying out of associated construction management and investment
monitoring; and

carrying out of sector development studies related to improving the
efficiency of the sector including improvements to the reduction and
recovery of waste, financing studies, and public communications
campaigns to raise environmental awareness.

Part 4. Project Management

Support the PCT including through provision of equipment, consulting, Training
and Operating Costs related to the implementation, monitoring and evaluation,
environmental and social safeguards and the carrying out of Project-related audits.
SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Section I. Implementation Arrangements

Institutional Arrangements

The Borrower shall, through the MHU and the PCT, carry the overall responsibility
for implementing the Project in accordance with the Project Operational Manual
(POM). Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign,
amend, abrogate or waive the POM or any provision thereof.

The Borrower shall, through the MHU, ensure that all necessary measures are
taken to maintain the PCT during the execution of the Project with such staff and
resources as shall be required for the PCT to perform its duties in respect of the
day-to-day management and implementation of the Project. The Borrower shall,
through the MHU, appoint a coordinator to assist the PCT in the implementation
of the Project.

The Borrower shall coordinate with the other relevant entities, including, inter alia,
Oblasts, Selected Water and Wastewater Service Providers participating in the
Project, the implementation of the Project under arrangements satisfactory to the
Bank and defined in the POM.

Safeguards

The Borrower shall (a) carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of
the Safeguards Instruments; and (b) ensure that any contracts for civil works under
the Project incorporate the pertinent requirements of Safeguards Instruments and
include codes of conduct in form and substance acceptable to the Bank, detailing,
inter alia, measures that need to be undertaken by contractor and sub-contractors
on environmental, health and safety including gender-based violence.

Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure, and cause to
ensure, that none of the provisions of the Safeguards Instruments is abrogated,
amended, repealed, suspended or waived. In case of any inconsistencies between
the provisions of any of the Safeguards Instruments and the provisions of this
Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.

For purposes of the Project, the Borrower shall: (a) ensure that the selection of any
investments under the Project is done in accordance with the provisions of the
Polotsk/Novopolotsk ESMP, the site specific ESMPs, the ESMF, the site specific
ESIA and the RPF; (b) ensure the complete implementation of the site-specific
ESMP(s) in a manner acceptable to the Bank, including all necessary measures to
minimize and to mitigate any adverse environmental impacts caused by the
implementation of the Project; and (c) maintain the PCT with competent
environmental specialists in adequate numbers and with such responsibilities and
functions acceptable to the Bank as shall enable the PCT to manage, coordinate
and monitor the implementation of the site-specific ESMP(s).

Prior to the commencement of works under the Project for each proposed site, the
Borrower, through the PCT shall ensure that: (a) the related ESMP(s) and the
ESIA(s) are prepared in accordance with the ESMF; (b) where Project-related
resettlement takes place; the related RAP(s) are prepared in accordance with the
RPF; (c) the proposed design and site for said works incorporate the provisions of
the ESMPs, ESMF and RPF; and (d) such works are carried out in accordance with
the respective ESMPs and, if any, RAPs.

The Borrower shall, throughout the period of Project implementation:

(a) take all measures necessary on its part to collect, compile, and furnish to
the Bank through Project Reports, and promptly in a separate report or
reports, if so requested by the Bank, information on the status of
compliance with the Safeguards Instruments, all such reports in form and
substance acceptable to the Bank, setting out, among other things: (i) the
status of implementation of the Safeguards Instruments; (ii) conditions, if
any, which interfere or threaten to interfere with the implementation of the
Safeguards Instruments; and (111) corrective and preventive measures taken
or required to be taken to address such conditions; and

(b) promptly notify the Bank of any incident or accident related to or having
an impact on the Project, which has, or is likely to have, a significant
adverse effect on the environment, the affected communities, the public or
workers.

The Borrower shall ensure that all technical assistance under the Project shall only
be undertaken pursuant to terms of reference reviewed and found satisfactory by
the Bank, such terms of reference to ensure that the technical assistance takes into
account, and calls for application of the Bank’s Safeguard Policies.

The Borrower shall prepare and maintain, throughout Project implementation, and
publicize the availability of a grievance redress mechanism, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank, to hear and determine fairly and in good faith all
complaints raised in relation to the Project, and take all measures necessary to
implement the determinations made by such mechanism of the Project in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank.
Section II. Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation

The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank each Project Report not later than
one (1) month after the end of each calendar semester, covering the calendar
semester.

Section III. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. General

Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and
in accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the
Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to: (a) finance Eligible
Expenditures; and (b) pay: (1) the Front-end Fee; and (ii) each Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar premium; in the amount allocated and, if applicable, up to the
percentage set forth against each Category of the following table:

Percentage of
Expenditures to be
financed
(inclusive of Taxes)

Amount of the Loan
Allocated
(expressed in EURO)

(1) Goods, works, non-consulting
services, consulting services,
Operating Costs and Training
for the Project

89,775,000

Amount payable pursuant
to Section 2.03 of this
(2) Front-end Fee 225,000 Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of
the General Conditions

Amount due pursuant to
Section 4.05 (c) of the
General Conditions

TOTAL AMOUNT ee a

(3) Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar premium

 
-10-

B. Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

Le Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A above, no withdrawal shall be made for
payments made prior to the Signature Date.

ie. The Closing Date is March 31, 2025.

Section IV. Other Undertakings
A. The Borrower shall ensure that:

(1) prior to the start of operation of the Polotsk/Novopolotsk RLF, Vitebsk
Oblast shall develop a roll-out plan for closure of existing dump sites in
the area serviced by said RLF and shall have allocated sufficient resources
for the purpose, all in form and manner satisfactory to the Bank, and

(11) (a) within twelve (12) months of the Signature Date, the MHU develops a
rollout plan (Plan) acceptable to the Bank for public water and wastewater
services utility benchmarking at the national level and (b) within
twenty-four (24) months of the Signature Date, the Plan be implemented.
-ll-

SCHEDULE 3
Commitment-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage
of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date
(“Installment Share”).

Level Principal Repayments

Principal Payment Date Installment Share

On each April 15 and October 15

Beginning October 15, 2025
Through October 15, 2033

On April 15, 2034 5.48%

   
    

    
 

   

5.56%

   
 
-12-

APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions

1. “Affected Person” means a person or entity who, on account of the execution of
the Project and/or Subprojects, has experienced or would experience direct
economic and social impacts caused by: (a) the involuntary taking of land resulting
in: (i) relocation or loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss
of income sources or means of livelihood, whether or not such person must move
to another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated
parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such
person; and, “Affected Persons”, means more than one such Affected Person.

Bs ‘Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix
to the General Conditions, the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud
and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”,
dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.

a “Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section III.A of Schedule 2
to this Agreement.

4. “EHS Guidelines” means the World Bank Group Environmental, Health and
Safety Guidelines published on www.ifc.org/ehsguidelines, as said guidelines are
updated from time to time.

5. “Environmental and Social Impact Assessment” or ‘“ESIA” means an
environmental and social impact assessment satisfactory to the Bank, to be
prepared by the Borrower pursuant to the provisions of ESMF identifying and
assessing the potential environmental impacts of the activities to be undertaken
under the Project, evaluating alternatives, and designing appropriate mitigation,
management and monitoring measures, and the “ESIAs” means the plural thereof.

6. “Environmental and Social Management Framework” or “ESMF” means the
framework prepared by the Borrower, satisfactory to the Bank, dated December
30, 2018, and disclosed on the Borrower’s website on February 15, 2019 and on
the Bank’s website on February 6, 2019, setting out the principles, rules, guidelines
and procedures to screen and assess the environmental and social impacts
(including health and safety issues) of the Subprojects activities which will be
identified and appraised during Project implementation, and containing measures
and plans to avoid, minimize, mitigate and/or offset adverse impacts and/or reduce
said adverse impacts to acceptable levels, and enhance positive impacts, provisions
for estimating and budgeting the costs of such measures, and information on the
agency or agencies responsible for addressing project impacts, as said instrument
may be amended from time to time with the Bank’s prior written agreement.
10.

hd

12.

- 13.

“Environmental and Social Management Plan” or “ESMP” means the plan(s) to
be prepared by the Borrower, satisfactory to the Bank, in accordance with the
ESMF, which details (a) the measures to be taken during the implementation and
operation of the Project to avoid, minimize, mitigate or offset adverse
environmental and social impacts (including health and safety issues), or to reduce
them to acceptable levels; and (b) the actions needed to implement these measures,
as said instrument may be amended from time to time with the Bank’s prior written
agreement, and “ESMPs” means, collectively, all such ESMP.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project
Financing”, dated December 14, 2018.

“MHU” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Housing and Utility or any successor
thereto.

“Operating Costs” means the incremental expenses incurred by the PCT, on
account of Project implementation, which would not exist absent the Project, and
includes the costs for office rent, operation and maintenance of vehicles, office
equipment and supplies, communication costs, support for information systems,
translations, bank charges, travel and per diem costs, salaries of contractual staff
(excluding consulting services and salaries of officials of the Borrower’s civil
service), office administration costs, and other reasonable expenditures directly
associated with the carrying out of the Project, as agreed by the Bank; and based
on an annual budget acceptable to the Bank.

“Operational Manual” or “POM” means the manual prepared for the Project,
acceptable to the Bank, prepared and adopted by the Borrower, describing and
setting forth procedures inter alia, the activities and timetable of actions to be
carried out under the Project, the respective roles and responsibilities of the
Borrower’s subordinated agencies relevant ministry involved in_ the
implementation of the Project, the staff of the PCT, the fiduciary, technical and
operational aspects and procedures for implementation of the Project, including
the financial management procedures (budgeting, accounting and internal control,
disbursement and flow of funds, financial reporting, annual reports, internal and
external audit arrangements procedures and including the Project specific chart of
accounts), procurement procedures, monitoring and evaluation arrangements, and
other fiduciary and administrative arrangements and necessary terms of reference,
as the same may be amended from time to time with the prior written agreement
of the Bank.

‘“Polotsk/Novopolotsk Environmental and Social Management Plan” or
‘“Polotsk/Novopolotsk ESMP” means the plan prepared by the Borrower for
Polotsk/Novopolotsk Regional Landfill, satisfactory to the Bank, dated
13.

14.

Lo;

16.

17.

18.

ro,

-14-

January 2019, disclosed on the Borrower’s website on February 15, 2019 and
disclosed on the Bank’s website on February 6, 2019, which details (a) the
measures to be taken during the implementation and operation of the Project to
avoid, minimize, mitigate or offset adverse environmental and social impacts
(including health and safety issues), or to reduce them to acceptable levels; and
(b) the actions needed to implement these measures, as said instrument may be
amended from time to time with the Bank’s prior written agreement.

“Polotsk/Novopolotsk RLF” means a sanitary landfill to be carried out under Part 3
of the Project where waste is consolidated and managed from Novopolotsk,
Polotsk, Polotsk District, Rossony District and Ushachi District.

“Procurement Regulations” means, for purposes of paragraph 85 of the Appendix
to the General Conditions, the “World Bank Procurement Regulations for IPF
Borrowers”, dated July 2016, revised November 2017 and August 2018.

“Project Coordinating Team” or “PCT” means the Borrower’s national industrial
investment company “Belkomtekhinvest”’ established pursuant to Presidential
Decree 417, dated August 12, 2008 and subordinated to the MHU, which is
responsible for the day-to-day implementation of the Project, or any successor
thereto.

“Regional Land Fill” or “RLF” means a sanitary landfill where waste is
consolidated and managed from multiple jurisdictions in a defined area.

“Resettlement Action Plan” or “RAP” means the plan to be prepared and adopted
by the Borrower, satisfactory to the Bank, in accordance with the RPF, which
includes the principles, procedures, organizational arrangements and budget to
implement the resettlement related activities under the Project, or under Parts of
the Project, as said resettlement action plan may be revised from time to time with
the prior written agreement of the Bank; and “RAPs” means, collectively, all such
RAP.

“Resettlement Policy Framework” or “RPF” means the Borrowers framework
dated December 2018, disclosed in country on February 15, 2019 and on the
Bank’s website on February 6, 2019 and acceptable to the Bank, outlining general
implementation procedures, mitigation measures and monitoring procedures for
Resettlement under the Project, including the procedures for preparation and
implementation of resettlement plans, when applicable, as said framework may be
amended from time to time with the Bank’s prior approval.

“Safeguards Instruments” means collectively, the ESIA, ESMF, ESMP, RPF,
RAP; and “Safeguard Instrument” means any of such Safeguards Instruments.
20.

els

Zz.

23.

_15-

“Selected Water and Wastewater Service Providers” means any water utility
(vodokanal) and communal services utilities responsible for the provision of water
and wastewater services in the Borrower’s territory, selected in accordance with
the criteria and procedures defined in the Operational Manual.

“Signature Date” means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the
Bank signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to “the
date of the Loan Agreement” in the General Conditions.

“Training” means expenditures (other than those for consultants’ services)
incurred by the Borrower in connection with the carrying out of training activities
(such as seminars, workshops), including the reasonable travel costs (i.e.
accommodation, transportation and per-diem, inter alia) of trainees and trainers (if
applicable), training registration fees, catering, rental of training facilities and
equipment, logistics and printing services, as well as training materials, all for the
purposes of, and directly related to, the activities of the Project.

“Utility Performance Improvement Plan” and “UPIP” means comprehensive
strategic work plans developed to address a variety of utility management issues
based on terms of references acceptable to the Bank.
