Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

 

 

LOAN NUMBER 9002-AO

Loan Agreement

(Strengthening the National Social Protection System Project (Cash Transfer))
between
REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

 

 
LOAN NUMBER 9002-AO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01. The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to
and form part of this Agreement.

1.02. Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.

ARTICLE II — LOAN
2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of three hundred and twenty
million Dollars ($320,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to
time through a Currency Conversion (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project

described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”).

2.02. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

2.03. The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.

2.04. |The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.

2.05. The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Fixed Spread or such rate as may
apply following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General
Conditions.

2.06. The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year.

2.07. The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.

ARTICLE II — PROJECT

3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to carry out the
4.01.

4.02.

5.01.

Project in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions,
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and the Project Agreement.

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK

The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that the PIE
Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to
affect materially and adversely, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of the Project
Implementing Entity to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement
or the Subsidiary Agreement.

The Additional Events of Acceleration consist of the following:

(a)

(b)

The event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is
continuing for a period of sixty (60) days after notice of the event has been
given by the Bank to the Borrower.

The Project Implementing Entity has failed to perform any obligation
under the Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Agreement and this failure
is continuing for a period of sixty (60) days after notice of the event has
been given by the Bank to the Borrower.

ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

PISU has been established by the Project Implementing Entity in a manner
acceptable to the Bank.

The Project Operational Manual has been adopted by the Project
Implementing Entity, in a manner acceptable to the Bank.

A senior procurement specialist has been hired by the Project
Implementing Entity in a manner acceptable to the Bank.

The Subsidiary Agreement has been executed and all conditions precedent
to its effectiveness have been met, in a manner acceptable to the Bank.

The Borrower has furnished to the Bank documentary evidence, in form
and substance satisfactory to the Bank, of establishment of the necessary
arrangements, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, for purposes
of compliance with the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions under existing loan agreements between the Borrower and the
Bank.
3.02.

5.03.

6.01.

6.02.

6.03.

7%

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the Signature Date.

For purposes of Section 9.05 (b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement (other than those providing for
payment obligations) shall terminate is twenty-five (25) years after the Signature
Date.

ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Finance.
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) the Borrower’s address is:

Ministry of Finance

Largo da Mutamba

CP 12.35

Luanda
Republic of Angola; and

(b) the Borrower’s Electronic Address is:
Facsimile: E-mail:
+244 222 33 8548 administrativo.gmf@minfin.gov.ao

For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) the Bank’s address is:

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America; and

(b) the Bank’s Electronic Address is:
Telex: Facsimile:

248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
 

wiles
AGREED as of the Signature Date.

REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA

By

or,
Authorized Representative

Name: fususty Archer Mang wura
Title: Mina & tem
Date: July 23, co y

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

By

Authorized Representative

Name: Ox tcR. Lad eER }

Title: MAN

Date: uty 28 2.0 |

 
He

SCHEDULE I

Project Description

The objectives of the Project are to provide temporary income support to poor
households in selected areas of Angola, and to strengthen the delivery mechanisms for a
permanent social safety net system.

The Project consists of the following parts:

1. Cash Transfer program to poor households

(a)

(b)

(c)

(i) Development of the following delivery mechanisms for social
protection programs: unique social registry of poor and vulnerable
households, and management information system for safety net programs,
including household targeting, payment, monitoring and evaluation,
grievance mechanism information and complaint redress, and household
referral to productive inclusion and human development programs; and (ii)
provision of capacity building on the implementation of the unique social
registry and management information system for safety nets developed
under Part 1(a)(i).

Implementation of the following delivery mechanisms developed under
Part 1(a)(i) of the Project, in the Participating Municipalities: unique social
registry of poor and vulnerable households, and management information
system for safety nets.

(i) Provision of Cash Transfers to Beneficiaries; (ii) support for the
issuance of identification documents to women Beneficiaries; (iii)
provision of capacity building to Beneficiaries on the management of the
Cash Transfers.

me Development of a safety nets system

(a)

(b)

(i) Development and implementation of a communication strategy for the
Borrower’s planned subsidy reform; and (ii) development and
implementation of information, education and communication strategies
for the Cash Transfers and other selected social safety net initiatives.

(i) Provision of technical assistance to selected Beneficiaries to increase
their income-generating capacity, including inter alia, financial
management skills and numeracy; (11) provision of Productive Inclusion
Grants to selected Beneficiaries to carry out income generation activities;
(iii) provision of technical assistance on strengthening coordination
between social sectors and on improving access of selected Beneficiaries
ihe

to human development services; and (iv) provision of Block Grants to
CASIs for selected activities for strengthening linkages between
Beneficiaries and human development services in Participating
Municipalities, including, inter alia: mobile identification and registration
campaigns, behavior change campaigns, health fairs, support to victims of
domestic violence and social inclusion of teenagers and youth, Training
and Workshops, and equipment required for the purpose, including
maintenance costs.

Project management

(a)

(b)

Provision of support for the implementation of the Project, including the
carrying out of Project management, administration, coordination,
financial management, procurement, monitoring and evaluation, social
and environment-related activities.

Provision of capacity building on strategic planning, fund raising,
advocacy for social assistance and addressing gender gaps in human
capital and economic empowerment.
SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Section I. Implementation Arrangements

A.

L

Institutional Arrangements

The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to be responsible for
the overall management, implementation, coordination and monitoring and
evaluation of the Project, in accordance with this Agreement, the Subsidiary
Agreement and the Project Agreement.

The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain, throughout Project
implementation, a Multi-Sectoral Committee, in charge of providing policy and
strategic guidance to the Project, with composition, mandate and terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank.

The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to, establish, operate
and maintain throughout the implementation of the Project, a Project
implementation support unit (the “PISU”) with a structure, functions,
responsibilities, staff and adequate resources, all satisfactory to the Bank and as
further described in the Project Operational Manual, for providing support in the
implementation of the Project.

For the purpose of assisting with carrying out Parts 1(c)(i), 1(c)(iii), 2(a)(ii),
2(b)(ii) and 2(b)(iv) of the Project and without limitation to the provisions of
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing
Entity to hire Payment Agents in accordance with Section 5.13 of the General
Conditions, with qualifications, terms of reference, and under terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank and as further described in the Project Operational Manual.

The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to hire a senior
procurement specialist in accordance with Section 5.13 of the General Conditions,
with qualifications, terms of reference, and under terms and conditions acceptable
to the Bank and as further described in the Project Operational Manual.

Manuals

Project Operational Manual. The Borrower shall cause the Project
Implementing Entity to adopt a manual acceptable to the Bank (the “Project
Operational Manual”), setting out detailed institutional, administrative, financial,
technical and operational guidelines and procedures for the implementation of the
Project, including, inter alia:
(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)
(e)

(f)
(g)
(h)

detailed environmental, social, financial management (including funds
flow and budgeting) and procurement arrangements;

the detailed description of the Project, its sequencing and prospective
timetable;

the Project performance indicators and the procedures for the monitoring
and evaluation of the Project;

the composition, functions and responsibilities of the PISU;

the functions and responsibilities of the MAT, the Project Implementing
Entity and Participating Municipalities;

the ESMF; the ESCP; the LMP; and the VGPF;
the terms of reference of the Payment Agents; and

the detailed arrangements and procedures for grievance mechanisms.

Cash Transfers and Grants Manual. The Borrower shall cause the Project
Implementing Entity to prepare and adopt, and cause the Payment Agent to adopt
a manual, acceptable to the Bank (the “Cash Transfers and Grants Manual”),
setting out the guidelines and procedures for the implementation of Parts 1(c)(i),
1(c)(iii), 2(a)(ii), 2(b)(ii) and 2(b)(iv) of the Project, including, inter alia:

(a)

(b)
(c)
(d)

(e)

the Sub-project typology, cycle, process, forms, and fiduciary and social
and environmental requirements for managing funds;

the criteria for the selection of Beneficiaries, CASIs and Sub-projects;
the criteria for Beneficiaries to receive Productive Inclusion Grants;

the process for verifying receipt of Cash Transfers, Productive Inclusion
Grants and Block Grants; and

the process for and substance of exit interviews for Beneficiaries after
receiving a Cash Transfer or a Productive Inclusion Conditional Cash
Transfer, and for CASIs after receiving a Block Grant.

The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to carry out the Project
in accordance with the Project Operational Manual and the Cash Transfer and
Grants Manual.
The Borrower shall not amend, abrogate or suspend, or permit to be amended,
abrogated or suspended any provision of the Project Operational Manual or the
Cash Transfer and Grants Manual without the prior written agreement of the Bank.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any provision of the Project Operational Manual
or the Cash Transfers and Grants Manual is inconsistent with the provisions of this
Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.

Sub-projects

The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to make Grants in
accordance with eligibility criteria and procedures acceptable to the Bank, further
detailed in the Cash Transfers and Grants Manual, assisted by Payment Agents.

The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to make each Grant
under a Grant Agreement with the respective Grantee on terms and conditions
approved by the Bank, which shall include the following:

(a) The Grant shall be denominated and payable in Kwanzas.

(b) The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to obtain rights
adequate to protect the interests of the Borrower and those of the Bank,
including the right to:

(i) suspend or terminate the right of the Grantee to use the proceeds
of the Grant upon the Grantee’s failure to perform any of its
obligations under the Grant Agreement; and

(ii) in the case of in-kind Block Grants, assist the CASIs to procure
the goods and services to be financed out of the Block Grant in
accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and to carry out
all fiduciary functions with respect to the implementation of a
Sub-project;

(iil) require each Grantee to:

(A) carry out its Sub-project with due diligence and efficiency
and in accordance with sound technical, economic,
financial, managerial, environmental and social standards
and practices satisfactory to the Bank, including in
accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption
Guidelines applicable to recipients of loan proceeds other
than the Borrower;
(B)

(C)

(D)

(E)

(F)

(G)

-10-

provide, promptly as needed, the resources required for
the purpose;

except in the case of in-kind Block Grants, procure the
goods and services to be financed out of the Grant in
accordance with the provisions of this Agreement;

maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate in accordance with indicators
acceptable to the Bank, the progress of the Sub-project
and the achievement of its objectives;

except in the case of in-kind Block Grants: (1) maintain a
financial management system and prepare financial
statements in accordance with consistently applied
accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, both in a
manner adequate to reflect the operations, resources and
expenditures related to the Sub-project; and (2) at the
Bank’s or the Borrower’s request, have such financial
statements audited by independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank, in accordance with consistently applied
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, and promptly
furnish the statements as so audited to the Borrower and
the Bank;

enable the Project Implementing Entity, the Borrower and
the Bank to inspect the Sub-project, its operation and any
relevant records and documents; and

prepare and furnish to the Project Implementing Entity,
the Borrower and the Bank all such information as the
Project Implementing Entity, the Borrower or the Bank
shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing.

The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to exercise its rights
under each Grant Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive any Grant Agreement or any of its provisions.

Cash Transfers

For purposes of implementing Part 1(c)(i) of the Project, the Borrower shall cause
the Project Implementing Entity, assisted by Payment Agents, to:
idl Toe

(a) make Cash Transfers to Beneficiaries in accordance with eligibility criteria
and procedures acceptable to the Bank, further detailed in the Cash
Transfers and Grants Manual;

(b) make each Cash Transfer under a Cash Transfer Agreement with the
Beneficiary, on terms and conditions approved by the Bank;

(c) ensure that:
(i) the Beneficiaries receive the Cash Transfers on a timely basis;
(ii) an easily accessible grievance redress mechanism is established

and implemented throughout the implementation of the Project, in
a manner satisfactory to the Bank, in order to address grievances
relating to errors or omissions in the list of Beneficiaries selected
to receive Cash Transfers; and

(iii) | public awareness and information campaigns, including public
disclosure of the lists of Beneficiaries selected to receive Cash
Transfers, are carried out in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.

The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to collect and analyze
data and information on Cash Transfer payments and related grievance complaints
in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.

Agency Agreements

The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to enter into agreements
(“Agency Agreements”) with financial intermediaries and/or financial institutions
(“Payment Agents”), on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, for purposes
of: (a) defraying Cash Transfers to selected Beneficiaries; and/or (b) disbursing
Grants to Grantees (as the case may be); and/or (c) assisting with the
implementation of Parts 1(c)(iii) and 2(a)(i1) of the Project (as the case may be);
said Agency Agreements to include the Payment Agents’ responsibility for, inter
alia: (i) verifying selected Beneficiaries; (11) delivering pre-paid cards, opening
pooled or individual bank accounts or using mobile money; (iii) electronic trail
payments; (iv) establishing payment centers, automatic teller machines and/or
point of sales in publicly accessible places; (v) providing monthly reconciliations
of Cash Transfer amounts defrayed and outstanding or withdrawn by the
Beneficiaries, and/or of Grant amounts disbursed to Grantees; (vi) reporting
arrangement; (vii) balance of payments management; and/or (viii) providing
reports with respect to the implementation of Parts 1(c)(ili) and 2(a)(ii) of the
Project, all in accordance with the Project Operational Manual and the Cash
Transfers and Grants Manual.
-12-

The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to exercise its rights
under each Agency Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing
Entity to not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any Agency Agreement or any of
its provisions. In the event of conflict between the provisions of any Agency
Agreement and those of this Agreement, those of this Agreement shall prevail.

Subsidiary Agreement

To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make the proceeds
of the Loan available to the Project Implementing Entity on a grant basis, under an
agreement (the “Subsidiary Agreement”) between the Borrower, and the Project
Implementing Entity under terms and conditions approved by the Bank.

The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such a
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish
the purposes of the Financing. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Agreement or
any of its provisions.

Environmental and Social Standards

The Borrower shall, and shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to, ensure that
the Project is carried out in accordance with the Environmental and Social
Standards, in a manner acceptable to the Bank.

Without limitation upon paragraph | above, the Borrower shall, and shall cause
the Project Implementing Entity to, ensure that the Project is implemented in
accordance with the Environmental and Social Commitment Plan (“ESCP”), in a
manner acceptable to the Bank. To this end, the Borrower shall, and shall cause
the Project Implementing Entity to, ensure that:

(a) the measures and actions specified in the ESCP are implemented with due
diligence and efficiency, and as further specified in the ESCP;

(b) sufficient funds are available to cover the costs of implementing the ESCP;

(c) policies, procedures and qualified staff are maintained to enable it to
implement the ESCP, as further specified in the ESCP; and

(d) the ESCP or any provision thereof, is not amended, revised or waived,
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree in writing and the Borrower has,
thereafter, disclosed the revised ESCP.
-13-

In case of any inconsistencies between the ESCP and the provisions of this
Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.

The Borrower shall, and shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to:

(a) take all measures necessary on its part to collect, compile, and furnish to
the Bank through regular reports, with the frequency specified in the
ESCP, and promptly in a separate report or reports, if so requested by the
Bank, information on the status of compliance with the ESCP and the
management tools and instruments referred to therein, all such reports in
form and substance acceptable to the Bank, setting out, inter alia: (i) the
status of implementation of the ESCP; (ii) conditions, if any, which
interfere or threaten to interfere with the implementation of the ESCP; and
(iii) corrective and preventive measures taken or required to be taken to
address such conditions; and

(b) promptly notify the Bank of any incident or accident related to or having
an impact on the Project which has, or is likely to have, a significant
adverse effect on the environment, the affected communities, the public or
workers, in accordance with the ESCP, the instruments referenced therein
and the Environmental and Social Standards.

The Borrower shall, and shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to, maintain
and publicize the availability of a grievance mechanism, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank, to hear and determine fairly and in good faith all
complaints raised in relation to the Project, and take all measures necessary to
implement the determinations made by such mechanism in a manner satisfactory
to the Bank.

Section II. Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to furnish to the Bank
each Project Report not later than sixty (60) days after the end of each calendar
semester, covering the calendar semester.

Section III. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

A.

General

Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and
in accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the
Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to: (a) finance Eligible
Expenditures; and (b) pay: (i) the Front-end Fee; and (ii) each Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar premium; in the amount allocated and, if applicable, up to the
percentage set forth against each Category of the following table:
-14-

   
   
 

  
    

Percentage of
Expenditures to be

   
    
 
 

Amount of the Loan
Category Allocated ictal

(expressed in USD) inclusive of Taxes

   
 

 
 
  

   
    
   

   
 
 

(1) Goods, non-consulting
services, consulting services,
Operating Costs and Training
and Workshops for the
Project, excluding Cash
Transfers, Productive
Inclusion Grants and Block
Grants
(2) Cash Transfers under
Part 1(c)(i) of the Project,
Productive Inclusion Grants
under Part 2(b)(ii) of the
Project, and Block Grants
under Part 2(b)(iv) of the
Project
(3) Front-end Fee

 
   
     
    

99,200,000 100%

220,000,000 100%
800,000 Amount payable pursuant
Section 4.05 (c) of the
General Conditions

to Section 2.03 of this
TOTAL AMOUNT 320,000,000 | } — |

  
  

  
 
   
  

  
   

  
     
         
 
 

 
 

Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of

the General Conditions
Amount due pursuant to

  
   
 

    

(4) Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar premium

   

 
       
   

B. Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.
i Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A above, no withdrawal shall be made:
(a) for payments made prior to the Signature Date; or

(b) under Category (2), unless the Project Implementing Entity has: (i) hired
at least one Payment Agent; and (ii) adopted the Cash Transfers and Grants
Manual, all in a manner acceptable to the Bank.

2. The Closing Date is October 31, 2023.
 

-15-

SCHEDULE 3
Commitment-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage
of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date
(“Installment Share”).

Level Principal Repayments

Principal Payment Date Installment Share

On each March 15 and September 15
Beginning September 15, 2027
through September 15, 2048

On March 15, 2049 2.39%

    
       

  
  

    

2.27%

 
10.

-16-

APPENDIX
Definitions

“Agency Agreements” means the agreements referred to under Section I.A.E of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and “Agency Agreement” means one such Agency
Agreements.

“Angola” means the Borrower’s territory.

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix
to the General Conditions, the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud
and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”,
dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.

“Beneficiary” means a household in the bottom two quintiles living in the
Participating Municipalities, which meets the eligibility criteria set forth in the
Cash Transfers and Grants Manual to receive a Cash Transfer and/or a Productive
Inclusion Grant; and “Beneficiaries” means, collectively, all such Beneficiary.

“Block Grant” means a cash or in-kind grant made out of the proceeds of the Loan
to a CASI to finance a Sub-project under Part 2(b)(iv) of the Project.

“Cash Transfer” means an unconditional cash transfer made out of the proceeds of
the Loan to a Beneficiary under Part 1(c)(i) of the Project.

“Cash Transfers and Grants Manual” means the manual referred to under Section
B.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“CASI” means a Centro de Ac¢do Social Integrada (Integrated Social Action
Center) of the Borrower in a Participating Municipality, to receive a Block Grant;
and “CASIs” means, collectively, all such CASI.

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section III.A of Schedule 2
to this Agreement.

“Environmental and Social Commitment Plan” or the acronym “ESCP” means the

Borrower’s environmental and social commitment plan, acceptable to the Bank,
dated June 3, 2019, which sets out a summary of the material measures and actions
to address the potential environmental and social risks and impacts of the Project,
including the timing of the actions and measures, institutional, staffing, training,
monitoring and reporting arrangements, and any instruments to be prepared
thereunder; as the ESCP may be revised from time to time, with prior written
agreement of the Bank, and such term includes any annexes or schedules to such
plan.
11.

1S.

we pee

“Environmental and Social Standards” means, collectively: (i) “Environmental
and Social Standard 1: Assessment and Management of Environmental and Social
Risks and Impacts”; (ii) “Environmental and Social Standard 2: Labor and
Working Conditions”; (iii) “Environmental and Social Standard 3: Resource
Efficiency and Pollution Prevention and Management”; (iv) “Environmental and
Social Standard 4: Community Health and Safety”; (v) “Environmental and Social
Standard 5: Land Acquisition, Restrictions on Land Use and Involuntary
Resettlement”; (vi) “Environmental and Social Standard 6: Biodiversity
Conservation and Sustainable Management of Living Natural Resources”; (vii)
“Environmental and Social Standard 7: Indigenous Peoples/Sub-Saharan
Historically Underserved Traditional Local Communities”; (viii) “Environmental
and Social Standard 8: Cultural Heritage”; (ix) “Environmental and Social
Standard 9: Financial Intermediaries”; (x) “Environmental and Social Standard 10:
Stakeholder Engagement and Information Disclosure”; effective on October 1,
2018, as published by the Bank at www.worldbank.org.

“Environmental and Social Management Framework” or the acronym “ESMF”
means the framework prepared and adopted by the Borrower, satisfactory to the
Bank, dated May 31, 2019, disclosed in-country, and on the Bank’s website on
May 31, 2019, setting out the principles, rules, guidelines and procedures to screen
and assess the potential adverse environmental and social risks and impacts
(including health and safety issues) of Project activities, including the risks of
gender-based violence and sexual exploitation and abuse, adopt measures to avoid,
reduce, mitigate or offset environmental and social adverse risks and impacts,
including measures that endeavor to prevent and respond to gender-based violence
and sexual exploitation and abuse, procedural, budget and _ institutional
arrangements and actions needed to implement these measures, and information
on the agency or agencies responsible for addressing the Projects’ risks and
impacts; as well as for the preparation of environmental and social management
plans, as may be required, as such framework may be amended by the Borrower
from time to time, with the prior written agreement of the Bank.

“PIE Legislation” means Presidential Decree No. 48/19 of February 6, 2019.

“Project Implementing Entity” means “FAS” (Fundo de Apoio Social), the
Borrower’s Social Support Fund, established pursuant to the PIE Legislation, or
any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project
Financing”, dated December 14, 2018.

“Grantee” means a Beneficiary or a CASI; and “Grantees” means, collectively, all
such Grantee.
17.

18.

20.

21.

des

a3.

24.

a

26.

-18-

“Grants” means Productive Inclusion Grants and Block Grants; and “Grant” means
one such Grants.

“Kwanza” means the lawful currency of the Republic of Angola.

“Labor Management Procedures” or the acronym “LMP” means the plan to be
prepared by the Borrower, satisfactory to the Bank, and to be disclosed on the
Bank’s website, as said instrument may be updated from time to time with the prior
written agreement of the Bank.

“MAT” means the Borrower’s Ministério da Administragado do Territério e
Reforma do Estado (Ministry of Territorial Administration and State Reform), or
any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.

“Multi-Sectoral Committee” means the steering committee of the Project, referred
to in Section I.A.2. of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Operating Costs” means the reasonable costs, as shall have been approved by the
Bank, for the incremental expenses incurred on account of Project implementation,
consisting of vehicle operation and maintenance, communication and insurance
costs, banking charges, rental expenses, office (and office equipment)
maintenance, utilities, document duplication/printing, consumables, travel cost
and per diem for Project staff for travel linked to the implementation of the Project.

“Participating Municipalities” means the Borrower’s municipalities of: Saurimo,
Cacuaco, Kuito, Huambo, Malanje, Viana, Lubango, Benguela, Menongue,
Cuango, Uige, Cabinda, Luena, Belas, Luanda, Cadla, Lucapa, Cambulo, Chitato,
Mbanza Congo, Soyo, Namibe, Amboim (formerly Gabela), Cubal, Sumbe,
Catumbela, Ganda, Negage, Luau, Lobito, Camacupa, Baia Farta, Cazengo,
Matala, Andulo, Kwanhama, Kuimba, Cela (formerly Waku-Kungo), Seles
(formerly Uku Seles), Dande (formerly Caxito) and any other municipality that
meets the selection criteria specified in the Project Operational Manual, and as
agreed in writing with the Bank; and “Participating Municipality” means, one such
Participating Municipalities.

“PISU” means the unit referred to under Section I.A.3 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.

“Procurement Regulations” means, for purposes of paragraph 85 of the Appendix
to the General Conditions, the “World Bank Procurement Regulations for IPF
Borrowers”, dated July 2016, revised November 2017 and August 2018.

“Productive Inclusion Grant” means a grant made out of the proceeds of the Loan
to a Beneficiary to finance a Sub-project under Part 2(b)(ii) of the Project.
Zits

28.

an

30.

31.

aa.

-19-

“Project Operational Manual” means the manual referred to under Section B.1 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Signature Date” means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the
Bank signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to “the
date of the Loan Agreement” in the General Conditions.

“Sub-project” means any activities described in Parts 2(b)(ii) and 2(b)(iv) of the
Project, selected in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and the Cash
Transfers and Grants Manual, and proposed to be financed with the proceeds of a
Grant.

“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.F of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Training and Workshops” means the reasonable costs, as shall have been
approved by the Bank, for training and workshops conducted under the Project,
including tuition, travel and subsistence costs for training and workshop
participants, costs associated with securing the services of trainers and workshop
speakers, rental of training and workshop facilities, preparation and reproduction
of training and workshop materials, and other costs directly related to training
course and workshop preparation and implementation (but excluding goods and
consulting services).

“Vulnerable Groups Planning Framework” or “VGPF” means the framework to be
prepared and adopted by the Borrower, satisfactory to the Bank, and to be disclosed
on the Bank’s website, which sets out the principles, organizational arrangements
(including consultation, budget and disclosure), and design criteria to be applied
to Project activities which affect vulnerable groups, including the preparation of
vulnerable groups plans, as such framework may be amended from time to time
with the prior written agreement of the Bank.
