Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

 

 

LOAN NUMBER 8956-ID

Loan Agreement

(Third Indonesia Fiscal Reform Development Policy Loan)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
 

2 of 10 LN 8956-ID

LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between the REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(“Bank”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix
to this Agreement). The Bank has decided to provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (i) the
actions which the Borrower has already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I
of Schedule | to this Agreement; and (ii) the Borrower’s maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic
policy framework. The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01. The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to and form part
of this Agreement.

1.02. Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have the
meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this Agreement.

ARTICLE II — LOAN

2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of one hundred ten billion seven hundred
ninety-five million Japanese Yen (JPY | 10,795,000,000), consisting of: (a) fifty-five billion
three hundred ninety seven million and five hundred thousand Japanese Yen (JPY
55,397,500,000) allocated to sub-loan number LN8956-001 (“LN8956-001"); and (b) fifty-
five billion three hundred ninety seven million and five hundred thousand Japanese Yen
(JPY 55,397,500,000) allocated to sub-loan number LN8956-002 (“LN8956-002"’),
as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion (“Loan”).

2.02. The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.

2.03 The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn
Loan Balance.

2.04. The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Fixed Spread or such rate as may apply
following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General Conditions.

2.05. The Payment Dates are January 15 and July 15 in each year.

2.06. The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 2 to this
| Agreement.

2.07. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.05 of the General C Onditions, the Borrower
shall promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this Article II
as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request.
3 of 10 LN 8956-ID

2.08. (a) If on any given day, the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit (as said
terms are defined in sub-paragraphs (b)(ii) and (b)(iii) of this Section), the Borrower
shall pay to the Bank a surcharge at the rate of one half of one percent (0.5%) per
annum of the Allocated Excess Exposure Amount (as defined in sub-paragraph (b)(1)
of this Section) for each said day (“Exposure Surcharge’’). The Exposure Surcharge (if
any) shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date.

(b) For purposes of this Section the following terms have the meanings set forth below:

(1) “Allocated Excess Exposure Amount” means for each day during which the
Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit, the product of: (A) the
total amount of said excess; and (B) the ratio of all (or, if the Bank so
determines, a portion) of the Loan to the aggregate amount of all (or the
equivalent portions) of the loans made by the Bank to the Borrower and to other
borrowers guaranteed by the Borrower that are also subject to an exposure

surcharge, as said excess and ratio are reasonably determined from time to time
by the Bank. |

TRAITS eee eee oeeesiccaccee ooo eeneicrnaeaeecci neotenic enecineeerae T eT OF IRLEM ALOT NINO NP ES NPE NREL PORE PR TE ON, POR

(ii) “Standard Exposure Limit” means the standard limit on the Bank’s financial
exposure to the Borrower which, if exceeded, would subject the Loan to the
Exposure Surcharge, as determined from time to time by the Bank.

(iii) | “Total Exposure” means for any given day, the Bank’s total financial exposure
to the Borrower, as reasonably determined by the Bank.

ARTICLE Ill — PROGRAM

3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation. To this end,
and further to Section 5.05 of the General Conditions:

(a) the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either party,
exchange views on the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework and the progress
achieved in carrying out the Program;

(b) without limitation upon paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall promptly
inform the Bank of any situation that would have the effect of materially reversing the
objectives of the Program or any action taken under the Program including any action
specified in Section I of Schedule | to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK

4.01. The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following: a situation has arisen which
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will be carried out.

 
 

4.02.

2.01.

5.02.

6.01.

6.02.

6.03.

4 of 10 LN 8956-ID

The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following: the event specified in Section
4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of sixty (60) days after notice of
the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower.

ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following: the Bank is satisfied with
the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the Program and with the adequacy of
the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework.
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date sixty (60) days after the Signature Date.
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance.
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Borrower’s address is:
Directorate General of Budget Financing and Risk Management
Ministry of Finance
Gedung Frans Seda |
Jl. DR Wahidin Raya No. |
Jakarta 10710; and
(b) the Borrower’s Electronic Address is:
Facsimile: 62-21-381-2859
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Bank’s address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America; and

(b) the Bank’s Electronic Address is:

Facsimile: 1-202-477-639|
 

5 of 10 LN 8956-ID

AGREED as of the Signature Date.

REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

By .
ae ee
Authorized Representative

Name: LUKY ALEIRMAN A

DIRECTOR GENERAL OF BUDGET
Title: FINANCING AND Risk MANAGEMENT

May 27, 201
Date: a 2 3

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT

SD

Authorized Representative

Name: as) Cx

Title: Ackog Courkn Dunks

cr \
Date: Wig Au BOIM

 
 

 

6 of 10 | LN 8956-ID

SCHEDULE 1

Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds

Section I. Actions under the Program

The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following:

Pillar A: Improving Quality of Spending

ie

The Borrower has increased the shares of the central government budget allocated to
infrastructure, social assistance and health sectors, compared to pre-energy subsidy reform
years (2012-2014), as evidenced through the 2019 Budget Law and Presidential Regulation
129/2018.

Z. The Borrower has enabled the purchase of disaster risk insurance for the Borrower's assets, as
evidenced through the Minister of Finance Regulations 247/2016 and 142/2018.

3. The Borrower has expanded the climate finance budget tagging initiative from tagging only
for climate change mitigation to climate change mitigation and adaptation, as evidenced
through the Climate Budget Tagging Manual.

4. The Borrower has adopted the framework for standardizing and harmonizing the subnational
budget chart of accounts, as evidenced through the Government Regulation 12/2019.

Pillar B: Strengthening Revenue Administration

>. The Borrower has broadened the coverage of taxpayers subject to a streamlined procedure for
VAT refunds by: (a) increasing the refund value threshold; (b) expanding the criteria to be
considered a low risk VAT taxpayer; and (c) allowing partial refunds, as evidenced through
the Minister of Finance Regulation 39/2018.

6. The Borrower has created a risk management unit (Data Management Team) within the

Directorate General of Taxes, as evidenced through the Minister of Finance Decree 67/20] 9.

Pillar C: Enhancing Tax Policy

7,

The Borrower has enabled the expansion of the general income tax base. including by: (a)
introducing sunset clauses for the MSME final tax; and (b) allowing MSME taxpayers to opt
for taxation under the general regime, as evidenced through the Government Regulation
23/2018.

The Borrower has increased fiscal transparency by: (a) identifying all the tax expenditure
across its Major Taxes; (b) publishing its first tax expenditure statement; and (c) adopting its
sustainability strategy, as evidenced through the Financial Note for 2019 Budget, Minister of
Finance Official Note ND-315/KF/2018 and Indonesia tax expenditure report.
(teed Lane

Sapa ptiawie’ wtekiaaatec the

9.

7 of 10 LN 8956-ID

The Borrower has strengthened measures against base erosion and profit shifting by developing
a model tax treaty for use in double tax agreements, as evidenced through the Minister of
Finance Official Note ND-471/KF/2018.

Section II. Availability of Loan Proceeds

A.

General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank may specify by notice
to the Borrower.

Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche, from
which the Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds. The allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below:

| Allocations | Amount of the Loan
| | Allocated |

 

Single Withdrawal Tranche | 55,397,500,000 55,397, 500,000 |

i - ciieaiensia lic!
TOTAL AMOUNT | 110,795,000,000 |
Gi sismepmmrentinievemmnemnamnrs nti illo Ub aacpaeaiaasindia itch i i ah ee a Id

Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions.

No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank is satisfied:
(a) with the Program being carried out by the Borrower; and (b) with the adequacy of the
Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework.

Deposit of Loan Amounts.

The Borrower, within thirty (30) days after the withdrawal of the Loan from the Loan Account,
shall report to the Bank: (a) the exact sum received into the account referred to in Section 2.03
(a) of the General Conditions; (b) the details of the account to which the Indonesian Rupiah
equivalent of the Loan proceeds will be credited; (c) the record that an equivalent amount has
been accounted for in the Borrower’s budget management systems; and (d) the statement of
receipts and disbursement of the account referred to in Section 2.03(a) of the General
Conditions.

Closing Date. The Closing Date is December 31, 2019.

 
 

 

8 of 10 LN 8956-ID

SCHEDULE 2
Commitment-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage of the total
principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date (“Installment Share”).

Level Principal Repayments
(equally applicable to LN8956-001 and LN8956-002)

ON ener neeniaeese
é Principal Payment Date Installment Share |

| | |
On cach amas 1 ce
_ On each January 15 and July 15 |

| Beginning July 15, 2024

| through July 15, 2032 | 5.56% |
_On January 15, 2033 5.48% __|

 
eee

9 of 10 LN 8956-ID

APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

l.

13.

14.

15.

“2019 Budget Law” means the Borrower's law No. 12 of 2018 that sets out the Borrower's
national budget for the calendar year of 2019.

“Climate Budget Tagging Manual” means the Borrower’s manual, published in 2018 through
its Ministry of Finance, setting out the procedures and arrangements for line ministries to
implement the climate budget tagging initiative.

“Data Management Team” means the team responsible for data management under the
Directorate General of Taxes, established and operational pursuant to the Minister of Finance

Decree 67/2019.

“Directorate General of Taxes” means the directorate general responsible for taxes under the
Ministry of Finance, or any successor thereto.

“Financial Note for 2019 Budget” means Borrower’s financial note for its 2019 budget that
sets out the justification for the proposed budget.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Development Policy Financing”, dated December 14,
2018.

“Government Regulation” means a regulation enacted by the executive arm of the Borrower to
implement a Law.

“Law” means a piece of legislation enacted by the legislative arm of the Borrower.
“Major Taxes” means VAT, income tax, import duties and excises.

“Minister of Finance” means the Borrower’s minister responsible for finance, or any successor
thereto.

“Minister of Finance Decree” means a decree issued by the Minister of Finance.

“Minister of Finance Official Note” means the official note circulated by the Minister of
Finance as an instruction to carry out the action(s) set forth in such official note.

“Minister of Finance Regulation” means a regulation issued by the Minister of Finance.
*MSME” means micro, small and medium enterprises.
“President” means the Borrower's head of state and head of government.

“Presidential Regulation” means an executive legislation issued by the President.
 

18.

10 of 10 LN 8956-ID

“Program” means: the program of objectives, policies, and actions set forth or referred to in
the letter dated April 4, 2019 from the Borrower to the Bank declaring the Borrower's
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in
support of the Program during its execution and comprising actions taken, including those set
forth in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and actions to be taken consistent with the
program's objectives.

“Signature Date” means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the Bank signed
this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to “the date of the Loan
Agreement” in the General Conditions.

“Single Withdrawal Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category entitled
“Single Withdrawal Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 1 to this

Agreement.

“VAT™ means value-added tax.

EMOTES ARG 9 Fa SS ROE PE pier TEE TOA LR Nah SUD cetacean i cd TSC AS Brn eRe a panier sp RTIR
