Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

LOAN NUMBER 8938-UZ

Loan Agreement

(Ferghana Valley Rural Enterprise Development Project)

between
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
LOAN NUMBER 8938-UZ
LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between REPUBLIC OF

UZBEKISTAN (“Borrower’’) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”). The Borrower and the Bank
hereby agree as follows:

1.01.

1.02.

2.01.

ZL.

2.03.

2.04.

pA

2.06.

2.07.

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to
and form part of this Agreement.

Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IT — LOAN
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of two hundred million
Dollars ($200,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time
through a Currency Conversion (“Loan”), to assist in financing the Project

described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project’’).

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.

The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.

The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Fixed Spread or such rate as may
apply following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02 (e) of the General
Conditions.

The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
ALL.

4.01.

4.02.

Saks

5.02.

6.01.

6.02.

(a)

De

ARTICLE II — PROJECT
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following: the Agency
Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed, or waived so as to
affect, materially and adversely, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of the
Agency to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement.
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following: the event specified
in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of sixty
(60) days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS

The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:

(a) the POM has been adopted by the Borrower in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank; and

(b) the PIU has been established within the Agency.

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the Signature Date.
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Finance.

For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:

the Borrower’s address is:
Ministry of Finance
Istiqlol Street 29

Tashkent 100017
Republic of Uzbekistan; and
(b)

6.03.

.

the Borrower’s Electronic Address is:
Telex: Facsimile:

11 6360 IK BOL (998-71) 239-1225
(998-71) 244-5643

For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) the Bank’s address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America; and
(b) the Bank’s Electronic Address is:

Telex: Facsimile:

248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
AGREED as of the Signature Date.

REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN a
By Ay

orized Representative

Name: - Dr AMSH/2D AUCH MoV

Title: Depry Pe Minisren an) MinpsFER OF F7 RCE
Date: ARIE (J) , 2019

    

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

  
    

By

Authorized Representative

Name: Cy py, ULLee
Title: PEV wuss ViCe feesidenT ECA PEWON

Date: APR/IK f/ , 2019
-5-

SCHEDULE 1
Project Description

The objective of the Project is to support the expansion of rural enterprise activity
and job creation in the Ferghana Valley.

The Project consists of the following parts:

Part 1. Enterprise Development

Support of micro, small, and medium size enterprise development in the Ferghana
Valley by:

(a) facilitating business incubation and mentorship by supporting: (i) a
business incubator hub program for rural entrepreneurs; (ii) activities for launching
innovation start-ups; (iii) regional innovation centers; and (iv) development of a rural
apprenticeship pilot program;

(b) technical assistance to implement demand-driven investment proposals to
strengthen value chains and expand or establish enterprise clusters in the agriculture, food
processing, handicraft, rural services, tourism, and small manufacturing sectors to expand
productive activities or reach new markets; and

(c) supporting market promotion and technology testing activities in order to
facilitate the launching of enterprise clusters, or small and medium enterprise activities.

Part 2. Access to Finance

Facilitating access to finance by micro, small, and medium size enterprises in the
Ferghana Valley by:

(a) provision of the Sub-loans in the agriculture, food processing, handicraft,
rural services, tourism, and small manufacturing sectors; and strengthening the institutional
capacity of the PFIs to provide the Sub-loans;

(b) strengthening the SFSED capacity to issue partial credit guarantees
through: (i) institutional capacity building of the SFSED; and (ii) provision of funds for
partial credit guarantees issued or to be issued by the SFSED in the agriculture, food
processing, handicraft, rural services, tourism, and small manufacturing sectors; and

(c) support of pilot financial services proposals by financial institutions.
-6-

Part 3. Project Management and Coordination

Support to the Agency and other entities of the Borrower for Project management,
implementation, and monitoring, evaluation, and reporting, including in the areas of
financial management, procurement, disbursement, and social and environmental
protection.
#j..

SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Section I. Implementation Arrangements

A. Institutional Arrangements

l. Throughout Project implementation, the Borrower shall maintain the SC with
structure, functions and responsibilities necessary and appropriate to facilitate Project
coordination and support.

he Throughout Project implementation, the Borrower shall maintain the Agency, and
within the Agency establish and maintain the PIU, both with staff, resources, and functions
and terms of reference necessary and appropriate for Project management, implementation,
monitoring, evaluation, and reporting, as set out in the POM, and satisfactory to the Bank.

B. Project Implementation

1. The Borrower shall prepare and adopt the POM, the Credit Line Guidelines, the
Partial Credit Guarantee Guidelines, and Safeguard Documents, all in accordance with the
terms and conditions of this Agreement, and satisfactory to the Bank.

oe The Project shall be implemented in accordance with the terms and conditions of:
(a) this Agreement; and (b) the POM, the Safeguard Documents, the Credit Line
Guidelines, and the Partial Credit Guarantee Guidelines, which shall not be amended,
suspended, repealed or waived without the prior approval of the Bank. In case of any
conflict between the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the document(s) referred
to in paragraph 1 (b), this Agreement shall prevail.

3. Without limitation of Section I, Part B, paragraph 2 of this Agreement, the
Borrower shall ensure that:

(a) the Agency shall have the overall Project management, implementation,
monitoring, evaluation, and reporting responsibilities;

(b) Part 1 (a) of the Project shall be implemented by the Agency, with participation of
the Mol, the CCI, and other entities, as appropriate;

(c) Part 1 (b) of the Project shall be implemented by the Agency, with participation of
other agencies and entities, as appropriate;

(d) Part 1 (c) of the Project shall be implemented by the Agency;

(e) Part 2 (a) of the Project shall be implemented by the Agency and the PF's;
-8-

(f) Part 2 (b) of the Project shall be implemented by the Agency and the SFSED;
(g) Part 2 (c) of the Project shall be implemented by the Agency and the PFIs; and
(h) Part 3 of the Project shall be implemented by the Agency.

Cs Subsidiary Loan Agreements and Sub-Loan Agreements

L To facilitate the carrying out of Part 2 (a) of the Project, and upon approval of any
Sub-project, the Borrower shall make a part of the proceeds of the Loan available to the
pertinent PFI under the applicable Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the MoF and
Agency and the PFI, under the terms and conditions set out in the Credit Line Guidelines,
including those set out in paragraph 3 below, and satisfactory to the Bank.

2. The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and
the Bank, and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, or waive the Subsidiary Loan
Agreements, or any of their provisions.

3s The Borrower shall ensure that each Subsidiary Loan Agreement with a PFI shall
include the following terms and conditions:

(a) the amount and currency of the Subsidiary Loan;
(b) the Subsidiary Loan repayment terms;
(c) interest to be charged on the outstanding balances of the Subsidiary Loans;

(d) the requirement that each PFI shall carry out activities under Part 2 (a) of the
Project in accordance with the Anti-Corruption Guidelines;

(e) the requirement to comply with the applicable provisions of the Safeguard
Documents;

(f) obligations of the PFI to make the Sub-loans pursuant to the Sub-loan Agreements
satisfactory to the Bank, including those set out in sub-paragraph (g) of this paragraph 3;

(g) each Sub-loan Agreement shall ensure the PFI’s right to protect its interests and
those of the Borrower and the Bank, including the right to:

(i) require each Beneficiary to: (A) carry out its Sub-project with due
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical,
economic, financial, managerial, environmental and social standards and
practices satisfactory to the Bank, including in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to recipients of
9.

loan proceeds other than the Borrower and the applicable Safeguard
Documents; (B) provide, promptly as needed, the resources required for
the purpose; (C) procure the goods, works, and services to be financed out
of the Sub-loan in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement; (D)
not use the Sub-loan to finance any ineligible activities or expenditures set
out in the Credit Investment Guidelines; (E) maintain policies and
procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate the progress of
the Sub-project and the achievement of its objectives; (F) (1) maintain a
satisfactory financial management system and prepare financial
statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards;
and (2) at the Bank’s or the Borrower’s request, have such financial
statements audited by independent auditors, in accordance with
consistently applied auditing standards, and promptly furnish the
statements as so audited to the Borrower and the Bank; (G) enable the
Borrower and the Bank to inspect the Sub-project, its operation and any
relevant records and documents; and (H) prepare and furnish to the
Borrower and the Bank all such information as the Borrower or the Bank
shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing; and

(11) suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to use the proceeds of the
Sub-loan, or declare to be immediately due and payable all or any part of
the amount of the Sub-loan then withdrawn, upon the Beneficiary’s failure
to perform any of its obligations under the Sub-loan Agreement.

D. Partial Credit Guarantee Agreement and Subsidiary Partial Credit
Guarantee Agreements

iP To facilitate the carrying out of Part 2 (b) (ii) of the Project, the Borrower shall
make a part of the proceeds of the Loan available to the SFSED under the Partial Credit
Guarantee Agreement between the MoF and the Agency, and the SFSED, under the terms
and conditions set out in the Partial Credit Guarantee Guidelines, and satisfactory to the
Bank.

Zs The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the Partial
Credit Guarantee Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and
the Bank, and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, or waive the Partial Credit
Guarantee Agreement, or any of its provisions.

3. The Borrower shall ensure that the SFSED adopts the Partial Credit Guarantee
Guidelines, and issues partial credit guarantee commitments under Part 2 (b) (ii) of the
Project in accordance with the terms and conditions set out in the Partial Credit Guarantee
Guidelines, and the Subsidiary Partial Credit Guarantee Agreements, satisfactory to the
Bank, including those set out in paragraph 4 below.
-10-

4. Each Subsidiary Partial Credit Guarantee Agreement between the SFSED and a
PFI shall specify, among other things, the charges for the partial credit guarantee
commitment issued by the SFSED, the requirement that each PFI shall carry out activities
covered by the guarantee commitment in accordance with the Anti-Corruption Guidelines
and the applicable provisions of the Safeguard Documents, and the obligations of the PFI
to make credits to be covered by the partial credit guarantee commitments under the terms
and conditions satisfactory to the SFSED.

E. Safeguards

l. Without limitation of Section I, Part B, paragraph 2 of this Agreement, the
Borrower shall provide the Bank with a report on the ESMF status and compliance with
the applicable other Safeguard Documents requirement, as part of Project Reports or
separately, if requested by the Bank,

2 The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is implemented in compliance with
applicable laws and regulations on child and forced labor, including ensuring such
compliance by the PFIs and Beneficiaries.

>. The Borrower shall ensure that the Project activities do not include any involuntary
land acquisition, displacement of people, negative impact on economic activities, or
restriction on access to resources, or construction of new or rehabilitation of existing dams.

Section II. Project Monitoring, Reporting, and Evaluation

The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank each Project Report not later than forty-
five (45) days after the end of each calendar semester, covering the calendar semester.

Section III. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. General

Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and
in accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the Borrower
may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to: (a) finance Eligible Expenditures; and (b) pay:
(i) the Front-end Fee; and (ii) each Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar premium; in
the amount allocated and, if applicable, up to the percentage set forth against each Category
of the following table:
“i ts

 
    
           
   
  

  

Percentage of

      
   
   
 

    
  
  

  

Expenditures to be
Financed
Amount of the Loan (exclusive of Taxes
Allocated other than
Category (expressed in USD) Withheld Taxes)
(1) Goods, works, non-

   

  
   
     
     
  

consulting services, consulting
services, Training under Parts 1,
2 (b) (i) and 2 (c) and 3 of the
Project, and Incremental
Operating Costs under Part 3 of
the Project

18,500,000 100%

146,500,000 100%

10,000,000

(2) Subsidiary Loans under Part
2 (a) of the Project

    
  
 

  
  

(3) Capitalization of the SFSED
under Part 2 (b) (ii) of the
Project:

    
    
     
 

(a) first tranche; and

     
      
     
  
     
 

(b) second tranche 10,000,000

(5) Front-end Fee 500,000 Amount payable
pursuant to Section 2.03
of this Agreement in
accordance with Section
2.07 (b) of the General
Conditions

(6) Interest Rate Cap or Interest Amount due pursuant to

Rate Collar premium Section 4.05 (c) of the
TOTAL AMOUNT 200,000,000 RP ee

General Conditions
a Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

  

  

    
        

is Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A above, no withdrawal shall be made:
(a)
(b)

(c)

(d)

a

for payments made prior to the Signature Date;

under Category (2), unless the Borrower has adopted the Credit Line
Guidelines in accordance with Section I, Part B, paragraph 1 of this
Schedule;

under Category (3) (a), unless the SFSED has adopted the Partial Credit
Guarantee Guidelines and has signed the Partial Credit Guarantee
Agreement, in accordance with Section I, Part D of this Schedule; or

under Category (3) (b), unless the SFSED has adopted the Partial Credit
Guarantee Guidelines and has signed the Partial Credit Guarantee
Agreement, and the volume of guarantees issued by the SFSED under Part
2 (b) of the Project is equal to or larger than $20,000,000.

The Closing Date is July 31, 2025.
-13-

SCHEDULE 3
Commitment-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage

of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date
(“Installment Share’).

Principal Payment Date Installment Share

On each April 15 and October 15

Beginning April 15, 2024
through October 15, 2043

 
-14-

APPENDIX
Definitions

“Agency” means the Agency for the Implementation of Projects in the Field of
Agroindustry and Food Security (““UZAIFSA”), or any successor thereto.

“Agency Legislation” means the Decree of the President of the Republic of
Uzbekistan No. 5418, dated April 17, 2018, and the resolution of the Cabinet of
Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan No. 940, dated November 21, 2018.

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix
to the General Conditions, the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud
and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”,
dated October 15, 2006, and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.

“Beneficiary” means a micro, small, or medium size enterprise of the Borrower
selected by a PFI in accordance with the Credit Line Guidelines, to which the PFI
proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan, and “Beneficiaries” means any two or
more Beneficiaries.

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section III, Part A of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.

“Capitalization of the SFSED” means the Borrower’s contribution to the SFSED
partial credit guarantee fund, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the
Partial Credit Guarantee Agreement, and financed or proposed to be financed by
the Borrower from the Loan proceeds.

“CCI” means the Borrower’s Chamber of Commerce and Industry, an institution
established on July 7, 2004, pursuant to Decree of the President of the Republic of
Uzbekistant No. 3453, and reorganized pursuant to the Decree of the President of
the Republic of Uzbekistan No. 3068, dated June 19, 2017, or any successor
thereto.

“Credit Line Guidelines” means the guidelines with respect of Part 2 (a) of this
Project, and which set out: (i) the eligibility criteria and selection procedures for
PFIs; (ii) the operational, legal, and financial terms and conditions of Subsidiary
Loans, to be specified in the Subsidiary Loan Agreements; (iii) the eligibility
criteria and selection procedures for Beneficiaries, and appraisal and selection of
Sub-projects; (iv) Sub-project implementation, supervision, monitoring and
reporting requirements; (v) the operational, legal, and financial, terms and
conditions of Sub-loans, to be specified in the Sub-loan agreements; and (vi)
monitoring and reporting requirements; as such guidelines may be amended from
time to time, with prior approval of the Bank.
10.

A ks

12.

Ls

-15-

“ESIA” means the Borrower’s environmental and social impact assessment
acceptable to the Bank, prepared or to be prepared during the Project
implementation in accordance with the ESMF, and identifying and assessing the
potential environmental and social impacts of a proposed Sub-project, evaluating
alternatives, and designing appropriate mitigation, management, and monitoring
measures; the “Environmental and Social Impact Assessments” or ““ESIAs” means
the plural thereof. |

““ESMP” means the Borrower’s site-specific environmental and social management
plan, acceptable to the Bank prepared or to be prepared during the Project
implementation in accordance with the ESMF and approved by the Bank,
describing environmental and social mitigation, monitoring and institutional
measures for any Sub-project under the Project; the “ESMPs” means the plural
thereof.

“Environmental and Social Management Framework” or “ESMF” means the
Borrower’s Environmental and Social Management Framework, dated January 23,
2019, disclosed by the Borrower on February 13, 2019, and disclosed by the Bank
on its website on January 31, 2019, satisfactory to the Bank, describing the
environmental and social mitigation, monitoring, and institutional measures under
the Project, and setting forth the procedures for: (a) screening Sub-projects based
on their expected impacts on the natural and social environment, assigning a project
environmental category, and defining a need for environmental and social
assessment as part of the procedure for preparing ESMP(s); (b) environmental and
social guidelines including: (i) rules and procedures for ESIAs; (ii) environmental
and social impacts of the Project; (iii) generic mitigation measures to be undertaken;
(iv) monitoring plan format including, monitoring indicators, timing, methods; (v)
institutional responsibilities in all phases of the Project’s implementation; (vi)
disclosure and consultation requirements; and (c) provisions for preparation of
simple pest/pesticide management plans that outlines the procedures for ensuring
the safe handling, storage and use of pesticides and promotion of integrated pest
management as an alternative option for the use of pesticides.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project
Financing”, dated December 14, 2018.

“Incremental Operating Costs” means the incremental and reasonable expenses
incurred by the Agency and other entities of the Borrower on account of Project
implementation, management, monitoring and reporting, including office supplies,
office equipment maintenance, communication, local travel, vehicles operation
and maintenance, expenses for accident insurance of staff and for third party
liability insurance of drivers, commercial bank charges, salaries of the support staff
(including the uniform social charges and the applicable income tax retained at the
source but excluding salaries of civil servants of the Borrower), as such
14.

15.

16.

iT:

18.

20.

21.

-16-

expenditures are set forth in the Agency semi-annual budget, satisfactory to the
Bank, and such other expenditures as may be agreed upon by the Bank.

“Ferghana Valley” means the Borrower’s administrative regions of Andijan,
Ferghana, and Namangan.

“MoF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance, or any successor thereto.

“MoI” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Innovative Development, or any
successor thereto.

“Partial Credit Guarantee Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section
I, Part B, paragraph 2 of Schedule 2 of this Agreement, pursuant to which the
Borrower proposes to make or has made a part of the proceeds of the Loan
available to the SFSED under Part 2 (b) (ii) of the Project, as the same may be
amended from time to time, with prior approval of the Bank.

“Partial Credit Guarantee Guidelines” means the guidelines with respect of Part 2
(b) (ii) of the Project, which set out: (i) terms and conditions of the guarantees to
be provided by the SFSED to PFIs; (ii) the eligibility criteria and selection
procedures for PFIs; (iii) selection and appraisal by the PFIs of the Beneficiaries;
(iv) the operational, legal, and financial terms and conditions of partial credit
guarantees to be made by the PFIs under Part 2 (b) (ii) of the Project; and (v)
monitoring and reporting requirements; as such guidelines may be amended from
time to time with prior approval of the Bank.

“PFT” means a commercial bank of the Borrower selected by the Borrower to
participate in Part 2 (a) or Part 2 (b) (ii) of the Project pursuant to the eligibility
criteria set forth in the Credit Line Guidelines or Partial Credit Guarantee
Guidelines, respectively.

“PIU” means the project implementation unit to be established and maintained
within the Agency, and referred to in Section I, Part A, paragraph 2 of Schedule 2
of this Agreement.

“POM” means the Project operational manual to be adopted by the Borrower
pursuant to Section I, Part B, paragraph 2 of Schedule 2 of this Agreement, setting
forth, inter alia: (a) the institutional, operational, and administrative Project
responsibilities: (b) disbursement, procurement, and financial management
requirements: (c) credit and guarantee requirements; (d) environmental and social
requirements; and (d) data collection and reporting requirements, as said manual
may be amended from time to time, with prior approval of the Bank.
22.

ZS.

24.

26.

et,

28.

Zo.

30.

Sl.

pas

DD.

-17-

“Procurement Regulations” means, for purposes of paragraph 85 of the Appendix
to the General Conditions, the “World Bank Procurement Regulations for IPF
Borrowers”, dated July 2016, and revised November 2017.

“Safeguards Documents” means, collectively, the ESMF, ESIAs, and ESMPs; and
“Safeguards Document” means any of such Safeguards Documents.

“Signature Date” means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the
Bank signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to “the
date of the Loan Agreement” in the General Conditions.

“SFSED” means the Borrower’s State Fund for Support of Entrepreneurship
Development, established pursuant to the Resolution of the President of the
Republic Uzbekistan No. 3225, date August 17, 2017, or any successor thereto.

“SC” means the Borrower’s Project steering committee, to be established pursuant
to the POM, or any successor thereto.

“Sub-loan” means a loan made or proposed to be made by a PFI out of the proceeds
of the Subsidiary Loan for purposes of financing a Sub-project.

““Sub-loan Agreement” means a Sub-loan agreement to be entered or entered into
between a PFI and a Beneficiary for provision of a Sub-loan under Part 2 (a) of the
Project, pursuant to the Credit Line Guidelines.

““Sub-project” means a Beneficiary project that meets criteria set forth in the Credit
Line Guidelines.

“Subsidiary Loan” means a loan made by the Borrower to a PFI under Part 2 (a)
of the Project for the purposes of onlending to a Beneficiary pursuant to a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.

“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement pursuant to which the
Borrower proposes to make, or has made, a part of the proceeds of the Loan
available to a PFI under Part 2 (a) of the Project, as the same may be amended from
time to time, with prior approval of the Bank.

“Subsidiary Partial Credit Guarantee Agreement” means the agreement pursuant
to which the SFSED proposes to make, or has made, a part of the proceeds of the
Loan available to a PFI under Part 2 (b) (ii) of the Project, as the same may be
amended from time to time, with prior approval of the Bank.

“Training” means reasonable expenditures, as approved by the Bank, incurred for
the carrying out of training activities and study tours under the Project, including,
costs of travel and per diem of trainers and trainees, cost of workshops, rental of
34.

-18-

training facilities and equipment, and training materials, all based on a semi-annual
budget acceptable to the Bank.

“Withheld Taxes” means the following taxes withheld at source: taxes for social
charges; income taxes for residents and non-residents; and custom registrations
duties withheld at the source.
