Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

ir FICIAL

DOCL IP AENTS

 

 

LOAN NUMBER 8957-AM

Loan Agreement

(Second Additional Financing to the Lifeline Road Network Improvement Project)

between
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA

(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:

1.01.

L.02.

2M.

2.02.

2.03.

2.04.

2.05.

2.06.

Bd I

S01.

4.01.

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to and form
part of this Agreement.

Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.

ARTICLE IIT — LOAN
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of thirteen million four hundred
thousand Euros (€13,400,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through
a Currency Conversion (“Loan’’), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1

to this Agreement (‘Project’).

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section III of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.

The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.

The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Variable Spread or such rate as may apply
following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General Conditions.

The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.

ARTICLE III — PROJECT
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower, through MoTAI, shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
4.02.

5.01.

aA.

rd,

(a) that the Operational Manual has been updated and adopted by the Borrower, through
MoTAI, in a manner acceptable to the Bank; and

(b) that the key staff referred to in Section I.A.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement has been
hired.

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and eighty (180) days after the
Signature Date.

ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Finance.
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Borrower’s address is:
Ministry of Finance
I Melik-Adamyan Street
Yerevan 0010
Republic of Armenia; and

(b) the Borrower’s Electronic Address is:

Facsimile: E-mail:
+37411800132 secretariat@minfin.am

For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Bank’s address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development

1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America; and

(b) the Bank’s Electronic Address 1s:

Telex: Facsimile: E-mail:

248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391 sbossoutrot@worldbank.org
64145(MCI)
 

AGREED as of the Signature Date.

REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA

By LQ.

Authorized Representative

Name: Atom fantuaharyan
Title: M chester of Financ ss

Date: 10. 4 O. 2 O74 S

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By

Authorized Representative

Name: by evie K. Ross outrot

Title: Country Hanager
Date: 10. 10, LOL

 
SCHEDULE 1

Project Description

The objective of the Project is to improve access of rural communities to markets and
services through the upgrading of selected Lifeline Roads, and to strengthen the capacity of the
Borrower’s line ministry in charge of roads to manage the Lifeline Road Network.

The Project consists of the following parts:

Part 1: Lifeline Road Improvement

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

Carrying out of improvement works for approximately 450 kilometers of selected
roads within the Lifeline Road Network.

(1) Carrying out, on a pilot basis, rehabilitation and routine maintenance works of
approximately 23.4 kilometers of selected segments of the Lifeline Road Network,
under the terms of a Rehabilitation and Maintenance Contract; and (ii) carrying
out rehabilitation and routine maintenance works of approximately 23 kilometers
of selected segments of the Lifeline Road Network, under the terms of two
Rehabilitation and Maintenance Contracts.

Carrying out of detailed design studies, related technical supervision activities and
independent technical audits for rehabilitation activities under the Project.

Carrying out of road safety improvement works, including: (i) Black Spots
improvements; (11) works associated with the implementation of the Safe Villages
in all roads rehabilitated under the Project; and (ii1) the acquisition and installation
of road signs.

Part 2: Project Management and Institutional Strengthening

(a)

(b)

(c)

Provision of support for Project coordination and implementation through: (i) the
financing of Operating Costs required for Project administration and monitoring;
and (11) the carrying out of Project financial audits.

(1) Acquisition of a road asset management system database, including installation
and training to MoTAI personnel for the use of said database, (11) acquisition of
road survey equipment for surveying road conditions and traffic; (111) acquisition
of road laboratory equipment for testing the quality of works carried out under the
Project; and (iv) carrying out Lifeline Road Network data collection for the road
asset management system.

Carrying out of a road safety program, including inter alia, (i) the detailed design
for carrying out of Black Spots improvement works; (11) the provision of technical
assistance and training programs for MoTAI and Traffic Police personnel in road
safety management topics; (111) the carrying out of road safety educational practices
in Safe Villages schools, (iv) the carrying out of road safety campaigns linked to
the Lifeline Road Network; (v) the development of a road safety action plan;
(vi) the implementation of selected activities of the action plan developed under
Part 2(c)(v) of the Project; and (vii) the development and installation of a crash
data collection and management system and the provision of a training program
for Traffic Police, MoTAI, and other stakeholders as needed in using the system.

(d) Provision of technical assistance for, inter alia, the: (i) carrying out of a feasibility
study for the rehabilitation and maintenance of roads using a performance-based
approach, including the identification of at least one road section; (ii) carrying out
of studies on social monitoring and evaluation related to the Project, as well as
road sector financial sustainability; (iii) provision of training to MoTAI staff and
local contractors on the new concepts introduced by the Project, including design
and implementation of multi-year performance based contracts, efficient design
standards, and planning and contract monitoring for MoTAI; (iv) carrying out of
technical studies and detailed designs required for the preparation of potential
future investments in the road sector; (v) preparing a strategic development plan
for the Lifeline Road Network; and (vi) enhancing disaster risk preparedness for
the road sector, including the carrying out of a risk assessment of natural hazards
to road infrastructure.

Part 3: Contingent Emergency Response Component

Provision of support upon occurrence of an Eligible Emergency, as needed.
SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Section I. Implementation Arrangements

Institutional Arrangements

The Borrower shall maintain within MoTAI until completion of the Project, key staff with
functions, experience, responsibilities and qualifications acceptable to the Bank,
responsible for the management, coordination, implementation, monitoring and evaluation
of the Project, including, inter alia, a Project coordinator, a financial management
specialist, a procurement specialist, an environmental and social safeguards specialist and
a road engineer, as set forth in the Operational Manual.

The Borrower shall permit the use of standards recommended by the European committee
for standardization on design and construction of roads and highways (in addition to the
national standards) in the design and construction of road works under the Project.

For purposes of implementing Part 2(c)(vii) of the Project, not later than one month after
the Effective Date, the Borrower, through MoTAI, shall enter into an agreement
(“Collaboration Agreement’) with the Traffic Police, under terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank. Except as the Borrower and the Bank may otherwise agree in
writing, the Borrower shall not abrogate, amend, suspend, waive or otherwise fail to
enforce the Collaboration Agreement or any provision thereof.

Operational Manual
The Borrower shall:

(a) update and adopt the Operational Manual, satisfactory to the Bank, which shall
include the rules, methods, guidelines, standard documents and procedures for the
carrying out of the Project, including the following: (1) the detailed description of
Project implementation activities and the detailed institutional arrangements of the
Project; (ii) criteria for selecting the road sections to be rehabilitated and/or
maintained under the Project, based on economic return or/and other criteria
analysis adopted for the Project; (111) guidelines to follow in case of unexpected
findings of objects with possible cultural or archeological value; (iv) the Project
administrative, accounting, auditing, reporting, financial (including cash flow
aspects in relation thereto), procurement and disbursement procedures; (v) the
monitoring indicators for the Project; (vi) the ESMF and the RPF; and (vii) the
Emergency Response Operations Manual. In the event that any provision of the
Operational Manual shall conflict with this Agreement, the terms of this
Agreement shall prevail; and

(b) carry out the Project in accordance with the Operational Manual.
Except as the Borrower and the Bank may otherwise agree in writing, the Borrower shall

not abrogate, amend, suspend, waive or otherwise fail to enforce the Operational Manual
or any provision thereof.
Safeguards
The Borrower shall, through MoTAI, implement the Project in accordance with:

(a) the ESMF, and thereafter implement the pertinent ESMPs, in accordance with their
terms and in a manner acceptable to the Bank, ensuring that civil works will not
commence in any road section unless the ESMP for the respective section of the
road has been prepared by the Borrower, disclosed, consulted and approved by the
Bank; and

(b) the RPF, and if Resettlement is foreseen for specific road sections, thereafter
implement the pertinent resettlement action plan or abbreviated plan, as the case
may be, all in accordance with their terms and in a manner acceptable to the Bank,
ensuring that civil works will not commence in specific road section unless the
pertinent resettlement action plan or abbreviated plan for the respective section of
the road has been prepared, disclosed, consulted and approved by the Bank, and
implemented by the Borrower.

The Borrower shall, through MoTAI, ensure that: (i) the terms of reference for any
consultancy required for the Project shall be satisfactory to the Bank following its review
thereof; and (ii) to that end, such terms of reference shall duly incorporate the requirements
of the Bank’ Safeguards Policies then in force, as applied to the advice conveyed through
such technical assistance, including the public disclosure and consultation of the resulting
environmental and social impact assessments in accordance with the Bank’s Safeguard
Policies.

Contingent Emergency Response Component

In order to ensure the proper and timely implementation of Part 3 of the Project aimed
to provide immediate response to potential Eligible Emergency, the Borrower shall take
all actions required on its behalf to ensure that Part 3 of the Project is carried out in
accordance with the following provisions:

(a) The Borrower shall:

(1) prepare a manual (“Emergency Response Operations Manual’’), which
shall be an annex to the Operational Manual, setting forth detailed
implementation arrangements for Part 3 of the Project, including:
(A) designation of, and resources to be allocated to, the entity to be
responsible for coordinating and implementing Part 3 of the Project
(“Coordinating Authority’); (B) specific road sector investments which
may be included under Part 3 of the Project, the Emergency Expenditures
required therefore and the proposed procedures for such inclusion;
(C) financial management arrangements under Part 3 of the Project;
(D) procurement methods and eligibility procedures for Emergency
Expenditures to be financed under Part 3 of the Project; (E) the
documentation required for withdrawals of Emergency Expenditures; and
(F) any other arrangements necessary to ensure proper coordination and
implementation of Part 3 of the Project;
(11) from time to time, submit recommendations to the Bank for its
consideration for changes and updates of the Emergency Response
Operations Manual, as they may become necessary or advisable during
Project implementation to allow, if and as necessary, the inclusion of
activities under Part 3 of the Project to respond to an Eligible Emergency;

(111) ensure that Part 3 of the Project is carried out in accordance with the
Emergency Response Operations Manual; provided, however, that in the
event of any inconsistency between the provisions of the Emergency
Response Operations Manual and this Agreement, the provisions of this
Agreement shall prevail; and

(iv) not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive any provision of the
Emergency Response Operations Manual without the prior approval by the
Bank.

(b) The Borrower shall, throughout the implementation of Part 3 of the Project,

maintain the Coordinating Authority, with staff in adequate numbers and with
qualifications and resources satisfactory to the Bank.

Section II. Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

A. The Borrower, through MoTAI, shall furnish to the Bank each Project Report not later
than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar semester, covering the calendar
semester.

Section III. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

A. General

Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and in
accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the Borrower may
withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to: (a) finance Eligible Expenditures; and (b) pay the
Front-end Fee; in the amount allocated and, if applicable, up to the percentage set forth
against each Category of the following table:
 
  
  

  
  
  
   
 
 

   
     
 

Amount of the Loan Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated to be financed

(expressed in EUR) (inclusive of Taxes)

(1) Goods, works, Training,

Operating Costs, non-

consulting services, and nap SOE S0U 80%
consulting services under

Parts 1 and 2 of the Project

some] ef

under Part 3 of the Project °

Amount payable pursuant to
Section 2.03 of _ this
Agreement in accordance with

Section 2.07 (b) of the General
Conditions

13,400,000) |

    
  
   
 

Category

  

     
  
        
   

     

    

(3) Front-end Fee

        
   

B. Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.
iP Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A above, no withdrawal shall be made:
(a) for payments made prior to the Signature Date, except that withdrawals up to an

aggregate amount not to exceed €2,700,000 may be made for payments made prior
to this date but on or after April 3, 2019, for Eligible Expenditures; or

(b) for Emergency Expenditures under Category (2), unless and until the Bank is
satisfied, and has notified the Borrower of its satisfaction, that all of the following
conditions have been met in respect of said expenditures:

(1) (A) the Borrower has determined that an Eligible Emergency has occurred;
(B) has furnished to the Bank a request to include said activities in Part 3
of the Project (Contingent Emergency Response Component) in order to
respond to said emergency; and (C) the Bank has agreed with such
determination, accepted said request and notified the Borrower;

(11) the Borrower has: (A) updated the ESMF to include the provisions related
to Part 3 of the Project; (B) prepared, disclosed and consulted all
safeguards instruments required for Part 3 of the Project; and (C) ensured
that any actions which are required to be taken under said safeguards
instruments have been implemented, all in accordance with the provisions
of Section I.C of this Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and

(111) the Coordinating Authority has provided sufficient evidence satisfactory
to the Bank that it has adequate staff and resources for the purposes of said

activities.

= The Closing Date is December 30, 2021.

PSR YER PCN 4M PMI TRN NOH TEP ROPTE SOMA SLED HEL FO EE APT ME PROTA EDMTDEY NEST MTN BET ATOY MRNA “ARGO PRR TR TER REN SOREN "SNS CORTADA UCT IMME

LATTE LN PSP PLETE RA IR
-10-

Section IV. Other Undertakings

A. The Borrower shall ensure, until completion of the Project, that adequate budgetary
resources are allocated and made available for the maintenance of those sections of the
Lifeline Road Network rehabilitated under the Project.

 
-ll-

SCHEDULE 3

Commitment-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage of the
total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date (“Installment Share’’).

Level Principal Repayments

Principal Payment Date Installment Share

On each May 15 and November 15
Beginning Nov 15, 2033
through Nov 15, 2043 4.55%

On May 15, 2044 4.45%

   
 
   
  

 
  

   
 

 

 
.

APPENDIX
Definitions
l. “Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix to the

10.

General Conditions, the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and Corruption
in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006
and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.

“Bank’s Safeguard Policies” means the Bank's operational safeguard policies and
procedures, set forth in the Bank's Operational Manual under OP/BPs 4.01, 4.04, 4.09,
4.10, 4.11, 4.12, 4.36, 4.37, 7.50 and 7.60, or such policies and procedures then in force.

“Black Spots” means accident-prone locations along any given road.

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section III.A of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.

“Collaboration Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.A.3 of Schedule 2
to this Agreement.

“Coordinating Authority” means the entity referred to in Section D.1(a)(i)(A) of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Eligible Emergency” means an event that has caused, or is likely to imminently cause, a
major adverse economic and/or social impact to the Borrower, associated with a natural or
man-made crisis or disaster.

“Emergency Expenditures” means the Eligible Expenditures required to finance the cost
of the approved list of goods, works, and services necessary for the carrying out of selected
road sector investments in the Borrower’s territory under Part 3 of the Project and set
forth in the Emergency Response Operations Manual.

“Emergency Response Operations Manual” means the operations manual to be adopted by
the Borrower for Part 3 of the Project in accordance with the provisions of Section
I.D.1(a)(i) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Environmental and Social Management Framework” or “-ESMF” means the Borrower’s
framework acceptable to the Bank, as published and available to the public on March 19,
2019, which contains guidelines for undertaking site-specific environmental and social
measures for individual investments under the Project, including: (i) guidelines for the
identification of existing environmental and social conditions and potential direct and
indirect environmental and social impacts and risks resulting from the carrying out of the
Project; (11) guidelines for the carrying out of environmental assessments and the
preparation of environmental management plans, when applicable; (iii) recommendation
of mitigation measures for each negative impact identified; (iv) measures for enhancing
each identified positive impact; and (v) guidelines for the preparation of environmental and
social monitoring plans for tracking the application of the mitigation measures, as said
framework may be amended from time to time with the Bank’s prior approval.
11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

17.

19.

20.

ds

-13-

“Environmental and Social Management Plan” or “ESMP” means any of the Borrower’s
site-specific plans derived from the ESMF that have been prepared and will be prepared
during the implementation of the Project previous to the commencement of any civil works
under the Project, all in a manner acceptable to the Bank.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project Financing”, dated
December 14, 2018.

“Lifeline Road” means any road within the Lifeline Road Network, collectively referred to
as “Lifeline Roads”.

“Lifeline Road Network” means a priority network comprised of about 4,000 kilometers
comprised mainly by local roads and as well as republican roads, connecting rural
communities to at least one interstate road.

‘“MoTAI” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Territorial Administration and Infrastructure,
or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.

“Operating Costs” means the reasonable operational costs (which would not have been
incurred absent the Project), incurred by MoTAI related to Project implementation,
including inter alia, the costs of communication, supplies, printing and publications,
vehicle operation and maintenance, office refurbishment, maintenance and _ utilities,
purchase and maintenance of office equipment and furniture and facilities, local and
international travel (including accommodations, transportation costs and per diem), bank
charges, staff salaries (including associated taxes, and charges for insurance, but excluding
salaries of civil servants), logistics services, and such other expenditures as may be agreed
upon by the Bank.

‘Operational Manual” means the manual prepared by the Borrower dated June 15, 2018,
and referred to in Section I.A.2 of Schedule 2 to the Original Loan Agreement, as the same
may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank.

“Original Loan Agreement” means the loan agreement for the Original Project between the
Borrower and the Bank, dated February 11, 2013 (8229-AM), as amended.

“Original Project” means the project set forth in Schedule 1 to the Original Loan
Agreement.

“Procurement Regulations” means, for purposes of paragraph 85 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the “World Bank Procurement Regulations for IPF Borrowers”, dated
July 2016, revised November 2017 and August 2018.

‘Rehabilitation and Maintenance Contract” means a multi-year contract entered into by the
Borrower through MoTAI with a private sector contractor, which contract obligates said
private sector contractor to undertake all phases of road rehabilitation and maintenance
work as a single package.
22.

2:

24.

i).

26.

at

_14-

“Resettlement” means the impact of an involuntary taking of land under the Project, which
taking causes affected persons to have their: (i) standard of living adversely affected; or
(ii) right, title or interest in any house, land (including premises, agricultural and grazing
land) or any other fixed or movable asset acquired or possessed, temporarily or
permanently; or (iii) access to productive assets adversely affected, temporarily or
permanently; or (iv) business, occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely
affected, temporarily or permanently.

“Resettlement Policy Framework” or “RPF” means the document prepared by the
Borrower, acceptable to the Bank, and published and available to the public on March 19,
2019, and outlining general implementation procedures, mitigation measures and
monitoring procedures for Resettlement under the Project, including the procedures for the
preparation and implementation of resettlement action plans, as said framework may be
amended from time to time with the Bank’s prior approval.

“Safe Villages” means the program that combines traffic calming measures, footway
construction and an education program in schools located in villages near new improved
roads, in order to prevent road accidents, especially those involving vulnerable road users
such as pedestrians, children and the elderly.

“Signature Date” means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the Bank
signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to “the date of the Loan
Agreement” in the General Conditions.

“Traffic Police” means the Borrower’s agency responsible for traffic safety, established
pursuant to the Borrower’s Law No. 166-N, duly published in the Borrower’s Official
Gazette on July 8, 2005.

“Training” means the reasonable costs, as shall have been approved by the Bank, for
training and workshops conducted under the Project, including tuition, travel and
subsistence costs for training and workshop participants, costs associated with securing the
services of trainers and workshop speakers, rental of training and workshop facilities,
preparation and reproduction of training and workshop materials, and other costs directly
related to training course and workshop preparation and implementation (but excluding
goods and consultants’ services).
