Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

 

 

LOAN NUMBER 8983-AO

Loan Agreement

(Growth and Inclusion Development Policy Loan)
between
REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

 

 
LOAN NUMBER 8983-AO
LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between REPUBLIC OF
ANGOLA (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of
the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Bank has decided to
provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (i) the actions which the Borrower has
already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I.A of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and (ii) the Borrower’s maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic
policy framework. The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01. The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to
and form part of this Agreement.

1.02. Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.

ARTICLE Il — LOAN

2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of Five Hundred Million
Dollars ($500,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time
through a Currency Conversion (“Loan”).

2.02. The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.

2.03. |The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.

2.04. The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Fixed Spread or such rate as may
apply following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General
Conditions.

2.05. |The Payment Dates are January 15 and July 15 in each year.

2.06. The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 2
to this Agreement.

2.07. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.05 of the General
Conditions, the Borrower shall promptly furnish to the Bank such information
relating to the provisions of this Article II as the Bank may, from time to time,
reasonably request.
3.01.

4.01.

5.01.

ae.

ARTICLE III — PROGRAM

The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.
To this end, and further to Section 5.05 of the General Conditions:

(a)

(b)

the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of
either party, exchange views on the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy
framework and the progress achieved in carrying out the Program; and

without limitation upon paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall
promptly inform the Bank of any situation that would have the effect of
materially reversing the objectives of the Program or any action taken
under the Program including any action specified in Section I of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK

The Additional Event of Suspension consist of the following, namely that a
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a
significant part of it, will be carried out.

ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following:

(a)

(b)

that the Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in
carrying out the Program and with the adequacy of the Borrower’s
macroeconomic policy framework; and

that the Borrower has furnished to the Bank documentary evidence in
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, of the establishment of the
necessary arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, to ensure the Borrower
is in compliance with Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the Signature Date.
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Finance.
6.02. For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) the Borrower’s address is:
Ministério das Finangas
Largo da Mutamba
Luanda, Angola
Facsimile:
+244 222 706 002/3
6.03. For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) the Bank’s address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America; and
(b) the Bank’s Electronic Address is:

Telex: Facsimile:

248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)

 
 

AGREED as of the Signature Date.
REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA

By

*

a

Authorized Representative

Name: AuGusj0 ARCHEe MAnGueirg
Title: Miuai (8 VER ot TNANCE

Date: Suly 23 20 AS

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

By

   

Representative

a

Name: OQ Ln Ele LaAmMBERY
Title: Cou Niey MANAGER
Date: duly Va ; 2019

 
SCHEDULE 1

Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds

Section I. Actions under the Program
A. Actions to be Taken Under the Program. The actions to be taken by the

Borrower under the Program include the following:

Pillar 1: Strengthening the Macro-Financial and Institutional Environment

l.

The Borrower, through MINFIN, has improved the transparency and efficiency
of public debt management and operations, by introducing the first medium-term
debt management strategy (MTDS) and an annual borrowing plan, as evidenced
by: (i) the publication of the MTDS in MINFIN’s Debt Management Unit on
March 26, 2019; and (ii) publication of the annual borrowing plan in MINFIN’s
Debt Management Unit website on February 5, 2019.

The Borrower has strengthened the resilience of the banking system by
establishing a Deposit Guarantee Fund (DGF) and approving implementing
regulations for the DGF, as evidenced by Presidential Decree No. 195/18 of
August 22, 2018, creating the DGF, published in the Diario da Republica on
August 22, 2018; and by BNA’s Avisos No. 1/19 and 2/19 both of
January 11, 2019, regulating the DGF, published in the Diario da Republica on
January 11, 2019.

The Borrower has taken the necessary steps to reduce fiscal pressures from
SOEs and ensure that SOEs are commercially viable by strengthening the legal
and institutional framework for SOE oversight and privatization, as evidenced
by: (i) Presidential Decree No. 141/18 of June 7, 2018 approving a new law
strengthening the mandate of IGAPE, published in the Diario da Republica on
June 7, 2018; (11) Law No. 10/19 dated May 14, 2019, enacting the Borrower’s
new privatization law, published in the Didrio da Republica on May 14, 2019.

The Borrower has initiated a utilities pricing and subsidies reform by carrying
out an electricity tariff revision, as evidenced by the issuance and publication of
a Ministerial Decree endorsing a new electricity tariff revision.

The Borrower has taken measures to level the playing field for private
investments by approving: (i) a new private investment law that eliminates local
shareholder requirements for foreign investors, as evidenced by Law No. 10/18
of June 26, 2018, published in the Didrio da Republica on June 26, 2018; (ii) a
new competition law, as evidenced by Law No. 5/18 of April 30, 2018,
published in the Didrio da Republica on May 10, 2018; and (iii) the
establishment of a Competition Regulatory Authority (ARC), as evidenced by
Presidential Decree No. 313/18 of December 21, 2018, published in the Didrio
da Republica on December 21, 2018.

Pillar 2: Protecting the Poor and Vulnerable

6. The Borrower, through MASFAMU, has taken the necessary steps for the
establishment of a nation-wide cash transfer program by creating a unified social
registry (Cadastro Social Unico) as the building block for a nationwide cash
transfer program, as evidenced by Presidential Decree No. 136/2019 of May 10,
2019.

hi The Borrower, through BNA, has taken the necessary measures to strengthen
and modernize the national payments system, by restructuring the BNA’s

payments systems unit to ensure independent and adequate oversight, as
evidenced by BNA’s Despacho No. 28/2019 of March 6, 2019.

Section II. Availability of Loan Proceeds

A. General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank
may specify by notice to the Borrower.

B. Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan (except for amounts required to pay the
Front-end Fee) is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche, from which the

Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds. The allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below:

Allocations

(1) Single Withdrawal Tranche 498,750,000
(2) Front-end Fee 1,250,000

(3) Amount due pursuant to Section 4.05 (c)
of the General Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 500,000,000

 
 

Amount of the Loan Tranche
Allocated

   
   

 
  
   
    
Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions

No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank
is satisfied: (a) with the Program being carried out by the Borrower; and (b) with
the adequacy of the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework.

Deposit of Loan Amounts

Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 2.03 of the General Conditions:

(a)

(b)

Audit.

all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank
into an account designated by the Borrower on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank; and

the Borrower shall ensure that, upon each deposit of an amount of the
Loan into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the
Borrower’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the
Bank.

Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall:

have the account and the recoding of the amounts of the of the Loan into
the Borrower’s budget management system referred in part D of this
section, audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in
accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the
Bank; and

furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case, not later than
four (4) months after the end of the Borrower’s fiscal year, a certified
copy of the report of such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request and make such report publicly available in
a timely fashion and in a manner acceptable to the Bank.

Closing Date. The Closing Date is December 1, 2020.
SCHEDULE 2
Commitment-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment

Date (“Installment Share’’).

Level Principal Repayments
Principal Payment Date Installment Share

On each January 15 and July 15
Beginning July 15, 2029, 2.5%
through January 15, 2049

        
        
 
APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

“BNA” means Banco Nacional de Angola, the Borrower’s Central Bank.
“Diario da Republica” means the Borrower’s official Gazzette.

“IGAPE” means Instituto de Gestaéo de Activos e Participagdes do Estado, the
Borrower Institute for the Management of State Assets and Investments.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Development Policy
Financing”, dated December 14, 2018.

“MASFAMU” means Ministério da Ac¢do Social, Familia e Promogdo da
Mulher, the Borrower’s ministry of social action, family and the promotion of
women.

“MINFIN” means Ministério das Finangbas, the Borrower’s ministry of finance.

“Program” means the program of objectives, policies, and actions set forth or
referred to in the letter dated May 9, 2019, from the Borrower to the Bank
declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and
requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its
execution and comprising actions taken, including those set forth in Section I of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and actions to be taken consistent with the
program’s objectives.

“Signature Date” means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the
Bank signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to “the
date of the Loan Agreement” in the General Conditions.

“Single Withdrawal Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the
category entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of
Section II of Schedule | to this Agreement.

“SOE” means state owned enterprises.
