Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

JFFICIAL

oc! IMENTS

Oe a

 

 

LOAN NUMBER 8985-SR

Loan Agreement

(Competitiveness and Sector Diversification Project)

between
REPUBLIC OF SURINAME
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Cee SPRANG ieee i est

LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between REPUBLIC OF SURINAME

(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:

1.01.

1.02.

2.01.

2.02.

2.03.

2.04.

2.05.

2.06.

2.07.

3.01.

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

The General Conditions (as defined i in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to and form
part of this Agreement.

Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.

ARTICLE Ut! — LOAN

The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of twenty-three million Dollars,
($23,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency
Conversion (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement (“Project’’).

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds vad the Loan in accordance with Section III of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.

The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance. .

The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Fixed Spread or such rate as may apply
following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General Conditions.

The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.

ARTICLE Uf — PROJECT

The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall carry out: (a) Part 1 of the Project through the MNR; and (b) Part 2 of the
Project through the MTIT with the assistance of the Service Provider, all in accordance
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
4.01.

4.02.

5.01.

5.02.

503.

6.01.

6.02.

6.03.

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK

The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that the Service
Provider, has failed to perform any obligation under the Subsidiary Agreement.

The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that the event

specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of sixty

(60) days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that the
Project Operations Manual has been adopted by the Borrower in a manner acceptable to
the Bank. |

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the Signature Date.
For purposes of Section 9.05 (b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the

obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement (other than those providing for payment
obligations) shall terminate is fifteen (15) years after the Signature Date.

ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Finance.

For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Borrower’s address is:
Ministry of Finance
Tamarindelaan No. 3
P.O. Box 1348
Paramaribo
Republic of Suriname; and

(b) the Borrower’s Electronic Address is:

Telex: Facsimile: E-mail: .
597472610 | 597476314 . secmin@finance.gov.sr

 

For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Bank’s address is:

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W,

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America; and

 

 
(b) the Bank’s Electronic Address is:

AER ANN SO “RRO SRT erect

Telex: Facsimile:

248423(MCD) or 1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)

see ge ene “onmemare: ARR meet Aaa

Oe Ae AANA nn TORU tec SNORN at te aR ME IRI | Sa ns RUIN a owe

 
i
|

 

AGREED as of the Signature Date.

 

REPUBLIC OF SURINAME

 

Name: ie Llmere A. Hoe Soli acl
Title: AZ {nis fer of Finance
Date: Sepfember 95, 40149

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

" Tithe eyed

Authorized Representative

Name: | e v\
Title: \ \ire © + or
Date: J TemBL4 Aa5~ LOIS

sa Dts ts RCE cthson Seth POSS Salt scree pss

nA Rae NAB AN ab see ae

eto caae ts e
tas eA RO NE he
SCHEDULE 1

Project Description

The objectives of the Project are to support sector governance improvements and increase
competitiveness in Targeted Industries in Suriname.

The Project consists of the following parts:

i Strengthening the mining sector governance, transparency, accountability and
administration

Strengthening Suriname’s legal, regulatory and institutional frameworks for the mining
sector in accordance with international best practice and strengthening the capacity of
Suriname’s public institutions in the mining sector to carry out their functions, through:

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

provision of technical assistance for: (i) preparing and implementing a roadmap
for institutional reforms; (ii) developing legal and regulatory frameworks for the
mining sector; and (iii) establishing of the Borrower’s minerals institute;

carrying out capacity building on technical skills and managerial capabilities
required to regulate and monitor the mining sector;

provision of technical assistance on revenue assessment, collection and
forecasting, including through the implementation of the EITI and enhancement of
information and management systems to improve revenue collection in a
transparent and accountable manner;

(i) carrying out of a strategic environmental and social assessment of the mining
industry in Suriname (“SESA”), to examine possible impacts of future
development in the mining sector, and identify gaps in the legal framework, the
institutional capacity and the public consultation mechanisms; and (ii) provision
of technical assistance for the implementation of selected recommendations from
the foregoing SESA; and

carrying out capacity building to non-state actors involved in the implementation
of the EITI on independent oversight and effective participation in stakeholder
consultation mechanisms.

de Investment in SMEs and value chains in Targeted Emerging Industries

Improving SMEs’ managerial capabilities, investing in SMEs’ productivity and upgrading,
and supporting institutional and regulatory reforms to enable business growth, through:

(a)

(i) provision of business development services; and

tic scan een cet cnas nt SE AU S

20a On ean ARR RPE Rib ANd
 

(ii) provision of grants (“Grants”) for: (A) the purchase or upgrading of
equipment, or the carrying out of productivity-enhancing investments; and
(B) the carrying out of investments to improve value-chain
competitiveness; and

(b) (i) implementing MTIT’s tourism strategy, including: (A) provision of
technical assistance for the design and implementation of a tourism
awareness campaign; (B) establishing and operating a tourism authority;
and (C) provision of technical assistance for the improvement of tourist
information and carrying out of minor investments on signage and
upgrades at selected tourism sites in downtown Paramaribo;

(ii) improving the enabling environment for agribusiness, through: (A)
provision of technical assistance on facilitating fresh product exports
through quality standards compliance and inspections; (B) acquisition of
equipment and provision of implementation support for an electronic
single window for trade facilitation; (C) carrying out feasibility studies on
public-private partnership investment opportunities; and (D) provision of
technical assistance on improving SME access to finance; and

(iii) carrying out selected studies to inform future business environment
reforms.

3 Project management and evaluation

(a) (i) Provision of support for the overall management and implementation of Part 1

of the Project, including administration, monitoring and evaluation, technical and
financial management activities; (ii) provision of technical assistance on the
implementation and environmental and social safeguards of Part | of the Project;
and (iii) preparation of social and environmental studies required for activities
under Part 1 of the Project and carrying out of related consultations; and

(b) (i) Provision of support for the overall management and implementation of Part 2

of the Project, including administration, monitoring and evaluation, technical and
financial management activities; (ii) provision of technical assistance on the
implementation and environmental and social safeguards of Part 2 of the Project;

(iii) preparation of social and environmental studies required for activities under

Part 2 of the Project and carrying out of related consultations; and (iv) facilitating

public-private dialog on the selection of investments to be carried out under Part 2

of the Project.

 

 
SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Section I. Implementation Arrangements

Institutional Arrangements

The Borrower, through the MNR and the MTIT, shall be responsible for the overall
management, implementation, coordination and monitoring and evaluation of the Project.

The Borrower, through the MNR, shall operate and maintain: throughout the
implementation of the Project, for the purposes of implementing Part 1 of the Project, a
Project implementation unit in the MNR (the “MNR PIU”) with a structure, functions,
responsibilities, staff and adequate resources, all satisfactory to the Bank and as further
described in the Project Operations Manual.

The Borrower, through the MTIT, shall operate and maintain throughout the
implementation of the Project, for the purposes of implementing Part 2 of the Project, a
Project implementation unit in the MTIT (the “MTIT PIU”) with a structure, functions,
responsibilities, staff and adequate resources, all satisfactory to the Bank and as further
described in the Project Operations Manual.

The Borrower, through the MNR and the MTIT, shall establish and thereafter operate and
maintain, a Project Coordination Committee throughout the implementation of the Project
to ensure coordination between the MNR PIU and the MTIT PIU in the implementation of
the Project and assist with reporting obligations to the Bank, based on terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank and as further described in the Project Operations Manual.

For the purpose of carrying out Part 2(a) of the Project and without limitation to the
provisions of Section 3.01(b) of this Agreement, the Borrower, through the MTIT, shall,
not later than one hundred and eighty (180) days after the Signature Date, hire a Service
Provider in accordance with Section 5.13 of the General Conditions, with qualifications,
terms of reference, and under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank and as further
described in the Project Operations Manual.

The Borrower, through the MNR, shall hire a Financial Management Consulting Firm in
accordance with Section 5.13 of the General Conditions, with qualifications, terms of
reference, and under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank and as further described
in the Project Operations Manual. |

Subsidiary Agreement

To facilitate the carrying out of Part 2(a){ii) of the Project and without limitation to the
provisions of Section 3.01(b) of this Agreement, the Borrower shall, through the MTIT,
not later than one hundred and eighty (180) days after the Signature Date enter into an
agreement (the “Subsidiary Agreement’) with the Service Provider, under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include, inter alia:

7

oa At a aA RR A la aN IRR a ate Santi. a a

Ae ain NE: i Aa III CIR a SI ws N

 
(a)

(b)

(d)

the roles and responsibilities of the Borrower, through the MTIT, and the Service
Provider in connection with the implementation of Part 2(a)(ii) of the Project; |

the obligation of the Borrower, through the MTIT, to make part of the proceeds of
the Loan available to the Service Provider for the purposes of disbursing Grants to
Beneficiaries on behalf of the Borrower;

the right of the Borrower, through the MTIT, to take remedial actions against the
Service Provider in case the Service Provider shall have failed to comply with any
of its obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement, all as previously agreed with

the Bank;

the obligation of the Service Provider to:

(i)

(ii)

(iii)

(iv)

(v)

(vi)

carry out Part 2(a)(ii) of the Project, on behalf of the Borrower, through
the MTIT, with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with:
sound technical, economic, environmental, social, financial and
managerial practices, the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines,
the Procurement Regulations, the Project Operations Manual and the
Grants and BDS Manual; |

 

make|Grants to Beneficiaries in accordance with eligibility criteria and
procedures acceptable to the Bank, as further detailed in the Grants and
BDS Manual, which shall include the following:

(A) Beneficiaries shall be competitively selected based on commercial
potential and comply with firm size and other eligibility
requirements as established in the Grants and BDS Manual; and

(B) Beneficiaries shall contribute a portion of the total cost of the Sub-
project in accordance with the Grants and BDS Manual;

not assign, amend, terminate, abrogate, repeal, waive or fail to enforce the
chee Agreement or any provision thereof, unless previously agreed
with the Bank; .

if applicable, comply, or cause to be complied, with the obligations
referred to in Sections 5.06, 5.07, 5.10 and 5.11 of the General Conditions
(relating to the use of goods, works and services, maintenance of facilities,
plans, documents and records, cooperation and consultation, and visits,
respectively) in respect to Part 2(a)(ii) of the Project;

- assist the Borrower, through the MTIT, to comply with its obligations set

forth in Section II of this Schedule 2 to this Agreement;

assist the Borrower, through the MTIT in the design and establishment of
a aera Private Selection Committee, by no later than one (1) year after
the Signature Date, to be responsible for the selection of Beneficiaries; and

8

 

 
(vii) | assist the Borrower, through the MTIT, and the Public Private Selection
Committee in its selection of Beneficiaries.

The Borrower, through the MTIT, shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations
under the Subsidiary Agreement in ‘such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower
and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower, through the MTIT, shall not assign, amend, abrogate,
waive, terminate or fail to enforce the Subsidiary Agreement or any of its provisions.

Grant Agreements; Sub-projects

Upon approval of any given Sub-project, the Borrower, through the MTIT, shall cause the
Service Provider to make each Grant pursuant to an agreement (the “Grant Agreement”) to
be entered into between the Service Provider (on behalf of the Borrower, through the
MTIT) and the respective Beneficiary on terms and conditions approved by the Bank,
which shall include the following:

(a) The Grant shall be denominated in Surinamese Dollars.

(b) The Borrower, through the MTIT, shall cause the Service Provider to obtain ri ghts
adequate to protect its interests and those of the Borrower and the Bank, including
the right to:

(i) suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to use the proceeds of the
Grant, or obtain a refund of all or any part of the amount of the Grant then
withdrawn, upon the Beneficiary’s failure to perform any of its obligations
under the Grant Agreement; and

(1i) require each Beneficiary to:

(A) carry out its Sub-project with due diligence and efficiency and in
accordance with sound technical, economic, financial,
managerial, environmental and social standards and practices
satisfactory to the Bank, including in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to
recipients of loan proceeds other than the Borrower;

(B) provide, promptly as needed, the resources required for the
purpose;

(C) procure the goods, works and services to be financed out of the
Grant in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, and
with the Project Operations Manual and the Grants and BDS
Manual as appropriate;

(D) maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor
and evaluate in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank,

9
 

the progress of the Sub-project and the achievement of its
objectives;

(E) | (1) maintain a financial management system and prepare financial
statements in accordance with consistently appliéd accounting
standards acceptable to the Bank, both in a manner adequate to
reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the
Sub-project; and (2) at the request of the Bank, the Borrower
and/or the Service Provider, have such financial statements
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in
accordance with consistently applied auditing standards
acceptable to the Bank, and promptly furnish the statements as so
audited to the Borrower and the Bank;

(F) enable the Service Provider, the Borrower and the Bank to inspect
_ the Sub-project, its operation and any relevant records and
documents; and

(G) prepare and furnish to the Service Provider, the Borrower and the
_ Bank all such information as the Service Provider, the Borrower
or the Bank shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing.

|
The Borrower, through the MTIT, shall cause the Service Provider to exercise its rights
and carry out its obligations under each Grant Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except
as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, through the MTIT, shall cause the Service
Provider to not assign, amend, abrogate, waive, terminate or fail to enforce any Grant
Agreement or any of its provisions.

Project Manuals

Project Operations Manual. The Borrower, through the MNR and the MTIT, shall adopt
a manual acceptable to the Bank (the Project Operations Manual), setting out detailed
institutional, administrative, financial, technical and operational! guidelines and procedures

for the implementation of the Project, including, inter alia:

(a) detailed safeguards, financial management (including funds flow and budgeting)
and procurement arrangements;

(b) the detailed description of the Project, its sequencing and prospective timetable;

(c) the Project performance indicators and the procedures for the monitoring and
evaluation of the Project;

(d) the composition, functions and: responsibilities of the Project Coordination
Committee, the MNR PIU, and the MTIT PIU;

10

seaeanenc nant
(e) the ESMF (and any ESMPs and/or ESIAs required to be prepared in accordance
with the ESMF); the RPF (and any RAPs required to be prepared in accordance
with the RPF); and the ITPPF (and any ITPP required to be prepared in accordance
with the ITPPF); :

(f) the terms of reference of the Service Provider; and

(g) the detailed arrangements and procedures for grievance mechanisms.

Grants and BDS Manual. The Borrower, through the MTIT, shall cause the Service
Provider to adopt a manual, acceptable to the Bank (the Grants and BDS Manual), setting
out the guidelines and procedures for the implementation of Part 2(a) of the Project,
including, inter alia:

(a) the Sub-project cycle, process, forms, and fiduciary and social and environmental
safeguards requirements for managing funds;

(b) eligibility criteria for Sub-projects, Beneficiaries and SMEs to receive business
development services; and

(c) description of the cycle, process, and forms related to the provision of business
development services.

The Borrower, through the MNR and the MTIT (as the case may be), shall carry out the
Project in accordance with the Project Operations Manual and the Grants and BDS Manual.

The Borrower shall cause the Service Provider to carry out Part 2(a) of the Project in
accordance with the Grants and BDS Manual.

The Borrower shall not amend, abrogate or suspend, or permit to be amended, abrogated
or suspended any provision of the Project Operations Manual or the Grants BDS Manual
without the prior written agreement of the Bank.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any provision of the Project Operations Manual or the
Grants BDS Manual is inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, the provisions
of this Agreement shall prevail.

Safeguards

In carrying out activities under the Project, the Borrower, through the MNR and the MTIT,
shall and shall cause the Service Provider to, ensure that:

(a) the Project is carried out with due regard to EHS Guidelines, and in accordance
with the Safeguards Instruments;

(b) for each activity under the Project for which the ESMF and the RPF provide for
the preparation of an ESIA, and/or an ESMP, and/or a RAP:

11

 
SPAT Ds RTI LRN LM AIL ta SAE I ee RTARTA NA Ea RE ND eh ie RIES PaaS MTR

BB LSS ERE APN RED AE DE RIS TR US SSC ELAR Os RA a BS SE RIT NEF SU A SEIN ta SEN ae LES 2 I NGF FERN EC TE NE Te ASIA RN IE LP Aad HK EPI ION wee ba ATEN ASST OI TONS DIN DTA CR: RIE MT Re, CARTE SS OTS Es PAT A SSS eA TA Es A A

 

(c)

(d)

(i)

(ii)

proceed to have such ESIA, and/or ESMP and/or RAP, as appropriate:

(A) | prepared and disclosed in accordance with the ESMF and the RPF,
respectively;

(B) consulted upon adequately with people affected by the Project as
per the ESMF and the RPF, respectively, and submitted to the
Bank for review and approval; and

(C) adopted, prior to the carrying out of the Project activity;

(D) implement the applicable instrument in a manner satisfactory to
the Bank; and

take — measures as shall be necessary or appropriate to ensure
compliance with the requirements of such ESIA, and/or ESMP and/or
RAP in a manner satisfactory to the Bank;

all measures are taken to implement the RAPs in a manner and timeframe
satisfactory to! the Bank. To this end, the Borrower, through the MNR and the
MTIT, shall and shall cause the Service Provider to, ensure that:

(i)
(ii)

(iii)

funds are made available to cover all the costs of implementing the RAPs;

 

prior to carrying out activities which involve resettlement, Affected
Peo shall be compensated at replacement cost, resettled and provided
with assistance in accordance with the RAPs, as applicable; and

the implementation, monitoring and evaluation of such RAPs is completed
and reported in a manner satisfactory to the Bank;

for each activity under the Project for which the ITPPF provides for the preparation
of an ITPP, the Borrower shall, and shall cause the Service Provider to:

(i)

(ii)

prior to the carrying out of any said Sub-project or Project activity, prepare
and/or cause to be prepared and furnish to the Bank, an ITPP, in
accordance with the ITPPF and satisfactory to the Bank; and

thereafter, adopt and implement said ITPP in accordance with its terms
and in a manner aaieetaniory to the Bank.

The Borrower shall, through the MNR, ensure that the SESA is ‘Prepared, consulted,
disclosed and adopted in accordance with the SESA TORs.

The Borrower shall, through MTIT, and shall cause the Service Provider to, ensure that the
Sub-projects do not include any activities or expenditures on the negative list set forth in
the ESMF.

12

 
eed Peete ter

4, Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree in wniting, the Borrower shall, through the MNR
and the MTIT, and shall cause the Service Provider to, ensure that none of the provisions
of the Safeguards Instruments be abrogated, amended, repealed, suspended or waived. In
case of any inconsistencies between the provisions of any of the Safeguard Instruments and
the provisions of this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.

$} The Borrower shall, through the MNR and the MTIT, and shall cause the Service Provider
to, ensure that terms of reference for and any technical assistance, studies or capacity
building to be provided under the Project, are prepared in a manner satisfactory to the Bank
and duly incorporate and take into consideration the SESA, as well as the requirements of
the applicable Safeguards Policies and EHS Guidelines.

6. Without limitation upon its other reporting obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower
shall, through the MNR and the MTITT, and shall cause the Service Provider to:

(a) take all measures necessary on its part to regularly collect, compile, and submit to
the Bank, as part of the Project Reports, and promptly in a separate report whenever
the Bank may require, information on the status of compliance with the Safeguards
Instruments, all such reports in form and substance acceptable to the Bank, setting
out, inter alia: (i) the status of implementation of the Safeguards Instruments; (ii)
conditions, if any, which interfere or threaten to interfere with the implementation
of the Safeguards Instruments; and (iii) corrective and preventive measures taken
or required to be taken to address such conditions;

(b) promptly furnish to the Bank a copy of each progress report prepared and
submitted by any entity (including any engineer) supervising the Project’s civil’
works, the Project’s contractors and/or subcontractors; and

(c) promptly notify the Bank of any incident or accident related to or having an impact
on the Project which has, or is likely to have, a significant adverse effect on the
environment, the affected communities, the public or workers.

7. The Borrower shall, through the MNR and MTIT, maintain, throughout Project
implementation, and publicize the availability of a grievance mechanism, in form and
substance satisfactory to the Bank, to hear and determine fairly and in good faith all
complaints raised in relation to the Project, and take all measures necessary to implement
the determinations made by such mechanism in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.

Section I. Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
The Borrower, through the MNR and the MTIT, shall furnish to the Bank each Project

Report not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar semester, covering
the calendar semester.

Section II. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

A. General
13

 
Mereeiny isinhlkad noni giatinics es Se tel skola re a2 eater ashes a

Levine NOSE Ad at ts wei d Be Sold cee Sot ee

aR haere ie ae hee na he fiesd oe asin Pati em Be CANIN S Sr REe RL AS Bat APRS LR PSS MLA A aL NY SDI NSH

ere

a Cea AES 2 ee AO BSCE IER ETE At NB a BY Eh AMT eS RED AREER UE EF OM TY SEAM Os PPE Ot Rt SE I ALY A eS le AEE i SRE IES AGEN Pe NE GEES

ge aE Ea A IP I es SE BSP AN EE BLD Sin NETS MRI, Sete eT NN ENE PERO SLM DEORE LC SEAN

salailnedaalin leo

 
 
 
  
   

a RTE LF" Sart Ad hae RAEN IA BITTON IS elle Se

 

 

Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and in
accordance with the Disbursement. and Financial Information Letter, the Borrower may
withdraw the pro of the Loan to: (a) finance Eligible Expenditures; and (b) pay: (i)
the Front-end Fee; and (11) each Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar premium; in the
amount allocated and, if applicable, up to the percentage set forth against each Category of
the following table:

   

Amount of the

 
   
  
 

Percentage of Expenditures to

        
  

   
    
 
   
 
  
 
   
     

Loan
pees tata a
expressed in USD
(1) Goods, non-consulting 6,971,250 100%

services, consulting services
Operating Costs, and Training and
Workshops for Parts 1 and 3(a) of
the Project
(2) Goods, works, non-consulting
services, consulting services,
Operating Costs, and Training and
Workshops for Parts 2(a)(i), 2(b)

and 3(b) of the Project

(3) Grants under Part 2(a)(ii) of the 6,200,000 100%
Project .

(4) Front-end Fee 57,500 Amount payable pursuant to
Section 2.03 of this Agreement in
accordance with Section 2.07 (b)
of the General Conditions

(5) Interest Rate Cap or Interest Amount due pursuant to Section
Rate Collar premium 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT TAO oh a

B. Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

       

9,771,250

 

 
 
    

  
   
 

 

       

  

   

l. Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A above, no withdrawal shall be made:
(a) for payments made prior to the Signature Date, except that withdrawals up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 may be made for payments made prior
to this date but on or after March 1, 2019, for Eligible Expenditures; or

(b) under Category (1), unless the Borrower, through the MNR, has hired a Financial
Management Consulting Firm in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; or

(c) under Category (3), unless:

(i) the Subsidiary Agreement has been signed and has become effective ina
manner satisfactory to the Bank; and

14

 
(ii) the Grants and BDS Manual has been adopted by the Borrower, through
the MTIT, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.

vk The Closing Date is June 13, 2025.

15

 
SCHEDULE 3
Commitment-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage of the
total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date (“Installment Share”).

    

Level Principal Repayments
On each August 15 and February 15
Beginning August 15, 2025
through August 15, 2048 | 2.08%

On February 15, 2049 2.24%

  

 

 
   
   
 

   
   

 

 

(90 BIN ler ht ee ete aR
Fe eee
10.

APPENDIX
Definitions

“Affected Person” means a person or entity who, on account of the execution of the Project
and/or any Subproject, has experienced or would experience direct economic and social
impacts caused by: (i) the involuntary taking of land resulting in: (A) relocation or loss of
shelter; (B) loss of assets or access to assets; or (C) loss of income sources or means of
livelihood, whether or not such person must move to another location; or (ii) the
involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and protected areas, resulting
in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such person; and, “Affected Persons”, means more
than one such Affected Person.

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and Corruption
in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006
and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.

‘““BDS” means business development services.

“Beneficiary” means an SME, which meets the eligibility criteria set forth in the Grants
and BDS Manual to receive a Grant; and “Beneficiaries” means, collectively, all such
Beneficiary. |

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section III.A of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.

“EHS Guidelines” means the World Bank Group Environmental, Health and Safety
Guidelines published on www.ifc.org/ehsguidelines, as said guidelines are updated from
time to time.

‘“FITI”’ means Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative Standard, as said standard may
be amended from time to time by the EITI International Secretariat, and acceptable to the
Bank.

“EITI Association” means the Association for the Extractive Industries Transparency
Initiative, a not-for-profit members association established under Norwegian law, with the
objective of making the EITI principles and requirements the internationally accepted
standard for transparency in the oil, gas and mining sectors.

“EITI International Secretariat” means the permanent institutional body responsible for the
day-to-day running of the EITI Association.

““ESIA” means (i) any environmental and social impact assessment for civil works under
the Project or Parts of the Project; and (ii) any site-specific environmental and social impact
assessment prepared pursuant to the ESMF for the Project or a Sub-project in each case
describing a set of mitigation, enhancement, monitoring, and institutional measures to be
taken during implementation of the Project or a Sub-project to avoid, minimize and

17

 
NS el in ht ete aed

et acetal Sth Aan tet Wt RA hires Se Ae Bes

Jabra

wea.

iene mes eet sees

11.

id.

13.

i.

16.

17.

mitigate adverse environmental and social impacts, offset them, or reduce them to
acceptable levels, or to enhance positive impacts; as said environmental impact and social
assessments (a) are satisfactory to the Bank, (b) have been published by the Borrower, (c).
have been published on the Bank’s website, and (d) may be amended and/or supplemented
from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank; “ESIAs” means,
collectively, all such ESIAs.

“ESMF” means the environmental and social management framework prepared and
adopted by the Borrower, satisfactory to the Bank, dated February 1, 2019, disclosed in-
country on February 11, 2019, and on the Bank’s website on February 1, 2019, setting out
the principles, rules, guidelines and procedures to screen and assess the potential adverse
environmental and social risks and impacts (including health and safety issues) of Project
activities, measures to avoid, reduce, mitigate or offset environmental and social adverse
risks and impacts, procedural, budget and institutional arrangements and actions needed
to implement these measures, and information on the agency or agencies responsible for
addressing the Projects’ risks and impacts; as well as for the preparation of environmental
and social management plans, and the negative list of excluded activities and expenditures,
as such framework may be amended by the Borrower from time to time, with the prior
written agreement of the Bank.

““ESMP” means the instrument to be prepared for a part of the Project or for a Sub-project
in accordance with the procedures and requirements under the ESMF, satisfactory to the
Bank, which details (a) the measures to be taken during the implementation and operation
of the Project or the Sub-project to avoid, minimize, mitigate or offset adverse
environmental and social impacts (including health and safety issues), or to reduce them to
acceptable levels; and (b) the actions needed to implement these measures, as said
instrument may be amended from time to time with the Bank’s prior written agreement;
and “ESMPs” means, collectively, all such ESMP.

“Financial Management Consulting Firm” means the firm referred to under Section [.A.6
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project Financing”, dated December
14, 2018. |

“Grant” means a grant made out of the proceeds of the Loan to a Beneficiary to finance a
Sub-project under Part 2(a)(ii) of the Project.

“Grant Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to under Section LC.1 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and “Grant Agreements” means, collectively, all such
“Grant Agreement”.

‘Grants and BDS Manual’ means the manual referred to under Section I.D.2 of Schedule
2 to this Agreement, as said manual may be amended from time to time with the agreement
of the Bank. | .

18

 

 
5 Couoraaeccon einer ala stant
|

18.

19;

20.

21.

de

23;

24.

2.

26.

27.

28.

“TTPP” means the indigenous and tribal peoples plan to be adopted by the Borrower,
satisfactory to the Bank, and to be disclosed on the Bank’s and on the Borrower’s websites,
which includes the principles, procedures, organizational arrangements and budget to
implement indigenous and tribal peoples related activities under the Project, or under parts
of the Project, as said indigenous peoples and tribal plan may be revised from time to time
with the prior written agreement of the Bank; and “ITPPs” means, collectively, all such
ITPP.

“TTPPF” means the indigenous and tribal peoples planning framework prepared and
adopted by the Borrower, satisfactory to the Bank, and disclosed on the Bank’s website on
February 8, 2019, which sets out, inter alia, the principles, organizational arrangements
(including consultation, budget and disclosure), and design criteria to be applied to Project
and Sub-project activities which affect indigenous and tribal peoples, including the
preparation of indigenous and tribal peoples plans, as such framework may be amended
from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank.

““MNR” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Natural Resources, or any successor thereto
acceptable to the Bank.

“MNR PIU” means the Project implementation unit referred to in Section 1.A.2 of Schedule
2 to this Agreement, or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.

“MTIT” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Trade, Industry and Tourism, or any successor
thereto acceptable to the Bank.

“MTIT PIU” means the Project implementation unit referred to in Section 1.A.3 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.

“Operating Costs” means the reasonable costs, as shall have been approved by the Bank,
for the incremental expenses incurred on account of Project implementation, consisting of
vehicle operation and maintenance, communication and insurance costs, banking charges,
rental expenses, office (and office equipment) maintenance, utilities, document
duplication/printing, consumables, travel cost and per diem for Project staff for travel
linked to the implementation of the Project.

“Procurement Regulations” means, for purposes of paragraph 85 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the “World Bank Procurement Regulations for IPF Borrowers”, dated
July 2016, revised November 2017 and August 2018.

“Project” means the project described in Schedule | to this Agreement.

“Project Coordination Committee” means the committee referred to under Section L.A.4 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Project Operations Manual” means the operations manual referred to in Section L.D.1 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as said manual may be amended from time to time with the
agreement of the Bank.

19

 
29.

30.

mas

32,

aa.

34.

39.

36.

37.

38.

“Public Private Selection Committee” means the committee referred to under Section
I.B.1(d)(vi) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“RAP” means the resettlement action plan to be adopted by the Borrower, satisfactory to

the Bank, and to be disclosed on the Bank’s and the Borrower’s website, which includes

the principles, guidelines, procedures, organizational arrangements and budget to
implement the resettlement related activities under the Project, or under Sub-projects, as
said resettlement action plan may be revised from time to time with the prior written |
agreement of the Bank; and “RAPs” means, collectively, all such RAP.

““RPF” means the resettlement policy framework prepared and adopted by the Borrower,
satisfactory to the Bank, and disclosed on the Bank’s website on February 6, 2019, and on
the Borrower’s website on February 11, 2019 which sets out, inter alia, the resettlement .
principles, sede: organizational arrangements (including consultation and budget),

and design criteria for the preparation of RAPs under the Project and Sub-projects, as such
framework may be amended from time to time with the prior written agreement of the
Bank. |

“Safeguards ee means collectively, the ESMF, ESLAs, ESMPs, ITPPF, ITPP,
RPF, and RAPs; and “Safeguard Instrument” means any of such Safeguards Instruments.

 

“Safeguards Policies” means, the Operational Policies (OPs) and Bank Procedures (BPs)
of the Bank, ee OP/BP 4.01 (Environmental Assessment), OP/BP 4.04 (Natural
Habitats), OP/BP 4.09 (Pest Management), OP/BP 4.10 (Indigenous Peoples), OP/BP 4.11
(Physical Cultural Resources), OP/BP 4.12 (Involuntary Resettlement), OP/BP 4.36
(Forests), and OP/BP 4.37 (Safety of Dams); they can be found at
https://policies.worldbank.org.

“Service Provider” means the firm referred to under Section I.A.5 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.

“‘SESA” means the strategic environmental and social assessment to be prepared by the
Borrower, through “i MNR, in accordance with the SESA TORs, satisfactory to the Bank,
which shall, inter alia, identify and describe possible impacts of future development in the
mining sector, and identify gaps in the legal framework, institutional capacity and public
consultation mechanisms.

 

““SESA TORs” means the terms of reference for the SESA, prepared by the Borrower, dated
January 4, 2019, satisfactory to the Bank, disclosed at the Bank’s website on February 6,
2019 and on the Borrower’s website on February 11, 2019; as said terms of reference may
be amended from time to time with the Bank’s prior wmtten agreement.

 

“Signature Date” means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the Bank
signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to “the date of the Loan
Agreement” in the General Conditions.

““SME” means small and medium-sized enterprises; and “SMEs” means, collectively

various such “SME”’.

20

 
a9.

40.

41.

42.

43.

45.

“Sub-project” means any equipment or investments referred to in Part 2(a)(ii) of the
Project, selected in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and the Grants and
BDS Manual, and proposed to be financed with the proceeds of a Grant.

“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to under Section L.B.1 of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.

“Suriname” means the Borrower’s territory.
“Surinamese Dollars” means the lawful currency of the Borrower.

“Targeted Emerging Industries” means industries involved in the Borrower’s agribusiness
or tourism sector, or industries that contribute to the Borrower’s sector diversification
through increasing non-traditional exports, increasing domestic value addition in mining
supply chains (but excluding industries engaged directly in exploration or extraction), or
introducing innovative products or processes in the economy.

“Targeted Industries” means industries involved in the Borrower’s mining, agribusiness or
tourism sector, or industries that contribute to the Borrower’s sector diversification through
increasing non-traditional exports, increasing domestic value addition in mining supply
chains (but excluding industries engaged directly in exploration or extraction), or
introducing innovative products or processes in the Borrower’s economy.

“Training and Workshops” means the reasonable costs, as shall have been approved by the
Bank, for training and workshops conducted under the Project, including tuition, travel and
subsistence costs for training and workshop participants, costs associated with securing the
services of trainers and workshop speakers, rental of training and workshop facilities,
preparation and reproduction of training and workshop materials, and other costs directly
related to training course and workshop preparation and implementation (but excluding
goods and consulting services), acceptable to the Bank.

21

 
