Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

1A

cr | D Post
OFFICIAL
—
pe 4 Se

IK AG
Docu!

LOAN NUMBER 9005-RO

Loan Agreement

(Romania Health Program for Results)

between

ROMANIA

and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between ROMANIA (“Borrower”) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (‘Bank’). The
Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:

1.01.

1.02.

2.01.

202.

2.03.

2.04.

205.

2.06.

2.07.

3.01.

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to and form
part of this Agreement.

Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.

ARTICLE If — LOAN

The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of five hundred million Euro
(500,000,000 Euro), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion (“Loan”), to assist in financing the program described in Schedule 1
to this Agreement (““Program’’).

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. All withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited
by the Bank into an account specified by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank.

The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.

The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.

The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Fixed Spread; or such rate as may apply
following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General Conditions.

The Payment Dates are March 1 and September | in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.

ARTICLE III — PROGRAM

The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Program. To this end, the
Borrower shall carry out the Program through MoH in coordination with Other
Implementing Institutions in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
4.01.

BU

5.02.

5.03.

ARTICLE IV — TERMINATION

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and eighty (180) days after the
Signature Date.

ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

The Borrower’s Representative is the Borrower’s Minister of Public Finance or its
successor thereof.

For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions the Borrower’s address is:
Ministry of Public Finance
16 Libertatii Blvd.. Sector 5
Bucharest, Romania
Facsimile: 4021 312 67 92
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) the Bank’s address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America; and
(b) the Bank’s Electronic Address is:

Facsimile: E-mail:

1-202-477-6391 Abanerji@worldbank.org
AGREED as of the Signature Date.

ROMANIA

By

  

Authorized Representative a

Namhe:E€UGEW ORL ANDO Teoho kOvIC)
Title: W/W/STER OF PUBLIC FINANCE
Date: SEPTEMACR £3, XLOLF

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By wee

Authorized Representative
Name: T47)AWA PROSKVR YAKO VA
Title: WORLA BAVK CouwIRY MIN AGES
Date: SEPTEMBER 23, KOMG

-4-
SCHEDULE 1
Program Description

The objective of the Program is to increase the coverage of primary health care for
underserved populations and improve the efficiency of health spending by addressing underlying
institutional challenges.

The Program consists of the following activities:
Results area 1: Improving PHC coverage for underserved populations

This results area aims to improve PHC coverage for underserved population by addressing
the physical, financial, and social challenges they face.

(a) To address physical challenges related to access to PHC, the Program will expand
community health care and strengthen its collaboration with PHC. Community
health nurses and Roma health mediators will be hired, trained and deployed to
communities to provide community-based interventions.

(b) To address social challenges faced by vulnerable groups, the Program will assist
targeted communities (including marginalized communities) to receive health
education and support to navigate the health care system, particularly PHC.

(c) To address financial challenges to PHC, the Borrower aims to provide the basic
package of PHC to the uninsured in Romania.

Results area 2: Rebalancing the hospital-centric system toward effective PHC

This results area aims to rebalance the hospital-centric system toward effective PHC by
addressing the institutional challenges: underinvestment in PHC, misalignment of incentives that
is embedded in NHIH’s provider payment mechanisms, and regulatory restrictions on the scope of
PHC services. The Borrower plans a set of initiatives to make PHC comprehensive, widely
accessible, and effective.

(a) One initiative under the Program will be to revise the package of services in PHC
to expand the number of services, including prescriptions for exams and
medications to control the most prevalent noncommunicable diseases (NCDs) and
increase the supply of preventive services for adults and children, such as annual
medical check-ups.

(b) To increase the supply of PHC, the Program will revise the provider payment
mechanisms and expand scope of services, incentivizing family physicians to

improve the effectiveness of services.

(c) Underinvestment in PHC will be addressed under the Program through: (i) increase

-5-
in the budgetary allocation to PHC; and (ii) establishment of a de minimis aid
scheme to provide grants and loans to: (a) facilitate the establishment of family
medicine practices in areas where no PHC is available; and (b) improve the quality
of existing PHC.

Results area 3: Improving health expenditure efficiency by addressing critical cost drivers

This results area aims to increase the efficiency of health expenditure by addressing critical
cost drivers, including high spending on pharmaceuticals, devices and supplies and by
improving access to and use of information.

(a)

(b)

The Program will support more effective implementation of centralized
procurement and pharmaceutical policies to better control spending on medical
products.

The Program will support improvements in health information management to
ensure standardization, and interoperability of the existing subsystems, to facilitate
access to information and enable evidence-based decision-making.

fie
SCHEDULE 2

Program Execution

Section I. Implementation Arrangements

A. Program Institutions

l. The Borrower, through MoH, shall be responsible for the overall implementation,
monitoring and evaluation of the Program. To this end, the Borrower, shall:

(a) establish, through MoH, not later than three months after the Effective Date, and
thereafter maintain throughout Program implementation, a strategic working group
for the support of the implementation of the Program (“Steering Committee’),
comprised of representatives of each Implementing Institution, responsible for
strategic oversight and guidance under the Program, all under terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank;

(b) ensure that each Implementing Institution will appoint, by not later than three
months from the Date of Effectiveness, the focal points under terms satisfactory to
the Bank, to monitor and oversee the implementation of the Program, including
social and environmental requirements of the Program, if applicable; as well as
provide inputs for the Program reports referred to in Section III of this Schedule,
not later than 30 days after the end of each calendar semester;

(c) ensure that the MoH and Other Implementing Institutions shall maintain,
throughout the implementation of the Program, the functions, staffing and resources
appropriate to fulfill their respective functions under the Program (including
technical, social and environmental safeguards, monitoring and fiduciary
functions); and

(d) carry out, through the MoH, the monitoring of day-to-day implementation of the
Program, consolidate the Program’s progress reports, and financial statements and
submit the Verification Reports to the Bank as per the terms set out in Section
II.B.1 (b) (ii) of this Schedule.

B. Additional Program Implementation Arrangements

1. The Borrower, through MoH and the Other Implementing Institutions, shall carry out the
Program Action Plan, or cause the Program Action Plan to be carried out, in accordance
with the schedule set out in the said Program Action Plan in a manner satisfactory to the
Bank.

Section II. Excluded Activities

The Borrower shall ensure that the Program excludes any activities which:

-7-
in the opinion of the Bank, are likely to have significant adverse impacts that are sensitive,
diverse, or unprecedented on the environment and/or affected people; or

involve the procurement of: (1) works, estimated to cost $75,000,000 equivalent or more
per contract; (2) goods and non-consulting services, estimated to cost $50,000,000
equivalent or more per contract; or (3) consulting services, estimated to cost $20,000,000
equivalent or more per contract

Section III. Program Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation

A.

Program Reports

The Borrower, through the MoH, shall furnish to the Bank each Program Report not later
than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar semester, covering the calendar
semester.

Independent Verification Agent and Verification Protocols
The Borrower, through MoH, shall:

(a) no later than four months after the Effective Date, or such later date as agreed by
the Bank, appoint/select and thereafter maintain, throughout the implementation of
the Program, one or more independent verification agents, as needed, with
qualifications and experience and under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank
(“Independent Verification Agent’), to verify the data and other evidence
supporting the achievement of one or more DLIs/DLRs as set forth in the table of
Section IV.A.2 of this Schedule; and

(b) (i) ensure that each Independent Verification Agent carry out verification and
processes in accordance with the Verification Protocol; and (ii) submit to the Bank
the corresponding verification reports in a timely manner and in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank.

Section IV. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

General

Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and in
accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the Borrower may
withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to: finance Program Expenditures (inclusive of Taxes),
on the basis of the results (“Disbursement Linked Results” or “DLRs’”) achieved by the
Borrower, through the Program Implementing Institutions, as measured against specific
indicators (“Disbursement Linked Indicators” or “DLIs’’); all as set forth in the table in
paragraph 2 of this Part A.

The following table specifies each category of withdrawal of the proceeds of the Loan

He
(including the Disbursement Linked Indicators as applicable) (“Category”), the
Disbursement Linked Results for each Category (as applicable), and the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category:

    
   
 
 

  
    

Amount of the
Loan
Allocated
(expressed in
Euro)
(inclusive of
Taxes) and
100% financed
by the Loan

Total amount
allocated to the
individual DLI
uninsured
(2) DLI #2: Number of underserved communities receiving public
community health care in collaboration with PHC providers

(3) DLI #3: Share of the NHIH budget allocated to primary health 75,000,000
care

Category
(including Disbursement Linked Indicator as applicable)

  

 
    
 
   
   
  

    
 

    
   
 
 
 
   

 
  

    
    
 

  
 
      
   

   
   
   

     

 
     
    
 
 
 

(4) DLI #4: Number of family medicine practices receiving grants 75,000,000
and loans for the purpose of increasing and improving the supply
of PHC services
(5) DLI #5: Scope and effectiveness of PHC traced through the 50,000,000
share of diabetes medication initiated by PHC providers and
portion of adults (40+) receiving Annual Medical Check up
(6) DLI #6: Efficiency of NHIH expenditure improved through 50,000,000
data-driven decision-making process
(7) DLI #7: Efficiency of expenditure improved through 50,000,000
implementation of centralized procurement
8) DLI #8: Pharmaceutical measures revised for better efficienc 50,000,000
TOTAL AMOUNT 500,000,000
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made:
(a) on the basis of DLR #7 and DLR #8 achieved prior to the Signature Date, except
that withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed twenty-five million Euro

(€25,000,000) may be made on the basis of DLR #7 and DLR #8 achieved prior to
this date but on or after June 15, 2019; or

-9-
(b) for any DLR until and unless the Borrower has furnished evidence satisfactory to
the Bank that said DLR has been achieved.

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.1(b) of this Section, the Borrower may withdraw
an amount not to exceed fifty million Euro (€50,000,000) as an advance; provided,
however, that if the DLRs in the opinion of the Bank, are not achieved (or only partially
achieved) by the Closing Date, the Borrower shall refund such advance (or portion of such
advance as determined by the Bank in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (3) of
this Part B) to the Bank promptly upon notice thereof by the Bank. Except as otherwise
agreed with the Borrower, the Bank shall cancel the amount so refunded. Any further
withdrawals requested as an advance under any Category shall be permitted only on such
terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.1(b) of this Section, if the Bank is not satisfied
that any of the DLRs has/have not been achieved or will not be achieved by the date by
which the said DLR is/are set to be achieved, and/or the Allocated Amount(s) for such
DLR(s) has/have not been fully withdrawn, the Bank may, following prior consultation
with the Borrower, by notice to the Borrower decide at its sole discretion to:

(a) for DLR(s) #1.3, #2.2, #3.3, 44.3, #5.2 authorize the withdrawal of such lesser
amount of the unwithdrawn proceeds of the Loan then allocated to said Category
which, in the opinion of the Bank, corresponds to the extent of achievement of said
DLR(s), said lesser amount to be calculated in accordance with the respective
formulae set out in Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and/or

(b) reallocate all or a portion of the proceeds of the Loan corresponding to the
Allocated Amounts of the unmet DLR(s) to any other DLR(s); and/or

(c) cancel all or a portion of the proceeds of the Loan corresponding to the Allocated
Amounts then allocated to the unmet DLR(s).

The Closing Date is December 31, 2023.

-10-
 

SCHEDULE 3
Disbursement-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule — Bullet Repayment
Subject to the provisions of Section 3.03 of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall

repay in full the Disbursed Amount on September 1, 2029 (the Payment Date following
the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed Amount).

ares

 
SCHEDULE 4

Disbursement Linked Indicators, Disbursement Linked Results and Allocated Amounts

| Disbursement | Implemen| Prior | Resultstobe | Resultstobe | Resultstobe | Results to be
Linked ting Results Achieved in Achieved in Achieved in Achieved in
|__Indicators__| Institution | _Achieved_|__CY2020__|_—=C¥2021_ | = C¥2022_— | — CY¥2023_

     
   
  
 

      
   
   
  
  
 

   
   
  
  
  
   
     
   
   
   
   
     
 

      
   
   
   
      
   
     
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
     

   
      

| DLI #1: DLR 1.1 DLR 1.2 DLR 1.3
| Access to the Health Reform | Annual At least 2
| basic package Law 95/2006 | Budget Law million
| amended to and Medium uninsured
provide basic | Expenditure registered with
package of Framework PHC providers
| uninsured PHC services | reflect the (family
| at free to the amended physicians) to
uninsured Health receive the basic
Reform Law package of PHC
95/2006 to services
finance the
basic
package of

PHC services
for the
uninsured

| EUR35,000,000

| divided by

| 2,000,000

| multiplied by

| actual number

| of uninsured

| Allocated registered with
ee 20,000,000 | 20,000,000 Et PrOvislets

| (expressed in (family

| EUR) physicians) to

| receive the basic

package of PHC

| services, up to a

| maximum

| amount of

| DLI #2: MoH

| Number of

| underserved
| communities
| receiving

| public

| community

| health care in
| collaboration

 

DLR 2.1 DLR 2.2
Methodologic 300

al guidelines Underserved
and household Communities
monitoring providing public
instruments community

for community health care in
health care, collaboration
and template with PHC

17%:

     
     
   
   
   
     

         
      
Disbursement | Implemen Prior Results to be | Resultstobe | Results to be Results to be
Linked ting Results Achieved in | Achieved in Achieved in Achieved in
| _Indicators _| Institution | Achieved CY2020 CY2021 CY2022 CY2023
| with PHC agreements for
| providers collaboration
| between
community
health care
and PHC
developed and
adopted by the
Ministry of

| Health
: Allocated
| Sproat 24,000,000
(expressed in 9
| amount of
| a | EURS1,000,000
| DLR 3.1 DLR 3.3
Framework Share of NHIH
Contract is NHIH budget budget allocated
modified to allocated to to PHC is 10%
increase the PHC is at
effectiveness least 8%
of PHC
through (a)
Revised
provider
payment
mechanisms
and (b)
Expanded
scope of
services
allowed at
PHC

| Allocated
| ais, 20,000,000 20,000,000
| EUR)

wl Bi

 
       
   
   
   
   
   
    

EURS1,000,000
divided by 300
multiplied by
actual number
of Communities
providing public
community
health care in
collaboration
with PHC, up to
a maximum

   
     
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
     

| DLI #3: Share
| of the NHIH

| budget
allocated to
primary health
| care

 

  

EUR17,500,000
multiplied by
percentage
points of the
share of NHIH
budget above

      
   
   
     
Linked ting Results Achieved in | Achieved in Achieved in Achieved in
Indicators Institution | Achieved CY2020 CY2021 CY2022 CY2023

| 8% allocated to

| family

| medicine, up to

| a maximum
amount of

| EUR35,000,000

| (percentage

! points of the

| share of NHIH

| budget should

| be rounded to
the first decimal

Government At least 60 240 grant

 

Number of regulations grants and at | agreements and
| family medicine adopted to least 340 1360 loan
| practices establishade | loans agreements
| receiving grants MoH and minimis awarded by signed with

| and loans for

| the purpose of

| increasing and

| improving the

| supply of PHC
services

MoPF scheme and MoH to family
proposals family medicine
received medicine practices
within the first | practices
30 days
evaluated by
the MoH

 

  
       
   
   
   
   
   
     
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  

| EUR 42,0 000
multiplied by
actual number
of grants +
EUR 22,000
multiplied by
the number of
loans up to
1360, up toa
maximum
amount of EUR

: Allocated
fe oe 15,000,000 | 20,000,000
ae eee ee _ | 40,000,000

DLI #5: Scope DLR 5.1 DLR 5.2

(a) 10% of (a) 20% of
initiated initiated

MoH and metformin metformin

NHIH prescription (a_ | prescription (a
diabetes diabetes
medication), medication),

ite) ie | made byPHC | madebyPHC |

   
   
    
  
  
  
  

   
    
  
  
  
  

     
     
   
   
     

and
effectiveness o
PHC traced
| through the
| share of
| diabetes
| medication
| Disbursement Prior Results to be | Results to be Results to be
Linked ting Results Achieved in | Achieved in Achieved in
Indicators Institution | Achieved CY2020 CY2021 CY2Z022
providers; (b)

  
  
  
  
       
 
  
     
   
   
   
   
    
  

10% of adults
(40+) receiving
Annual Medical
check-ups by

PHC Providers

| initiated by

| PHC Providers
| and the

| proportion of

| adults (40+)

| receiving

   
   
   
     
   
   
   
   
   
    
   

EUR10,000,000
for (a) above
and EUR
10,000,000 for
(b) above

DLR 6.1

(a) Health
Data
Management
Strategy
approved by

DLI #6:
| Efficiency of
NHIH
expenditure
| improved

MoH, and
institutional

arrangements
are
implemented
as defined in
the said

 

   

   

Results to be
Achieved in
CY2023
providers; (b)
20% of adults
(40+) receiving
Annual Medical
Check-ups by
PHC Providers

   
    
  
  
 

EUR15,000,000
divided by 10
and multiplied
by (percentage
of metformin
prescription
initiated at PHC
Providers minus
10 percentage
points) up to
EUR15,000,000
for ( a) above.
and
EUR15,000,000
divided by 10
and multiplied
by (percentage
adults (40+)
receiving
Annual Medical
Check-ups
minus 10
percentage
points) up to
EUR15,000,000
for (b) above
DLR 6.2
(a) An inter-
operable system
connects data
between PHC
providers,
NHIH and
MoH, to
provide regular
data cross-
checks and
ineffective
pending data

 

 
  
    
  

 
 
   

 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
| Disbursement | Implemen| Prior | Resultstobe | Resultstobe | Resultstobe | Resultstobe
| Linked ting Results Achieved in Achieved in Achieved in Achieved in
Indicators Institution | Achieved CY2020 CY2021 CY2022 CY2023

Strategy; (b)
| Integrated
| management
| system in
| upgraded to
| allow
| improved
| detection of
| inefficient
| spending on
| claims
| management
| in PHC and
| hospital care,
| and e-
| | prescription

| Allocated | _ | | |
: Amounts 25,000,000 25,000,000
|

  

analytics; (b)
Efficiency of
health spending
increased by
avoiding
inefficient
NHIH

    
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
     

expenditures in
an amount
equivalent to
2.5% of total
projected annual
NHIH
expenditures.

 
   
   
  
 
 
   
       
     
   
   

      
  
 
  
  
  
   
  
  
   
    

   
  
 
  
  
  
   
  
  
   
   
     

   
   
  
   
     

Efficiency of
expenditure

| improved
through
implementation| and MoH
of centralized

health sector
and to
establish the
institutional
responsibilit

emergency
medical
services

publicly owned
hospitals and
savings through
economies of
scale in

| DLR7.0 DLR 7.1 DLR 7.2

| Legal Framework Framework

| framework | Agreements Agreements

| isadopted | between between ONAC
| to authorize | ONAC and and suppliers

| ONAC to suppliers signed for a

| carry out signed for 60 minimum of 60
| centralized | medical medical

| DLI#7: procurement | supplies and supplies and

| for the devices for devices for

  
   
 

   
     
   
     
   
   

ncocuratient ies of the procurement
MoH, that are
including equivalent to
relationship 5% of estimated
| with ONAC value of
| and relevant selected 60

entities medical
supplies and
devices based

|_on the

 

-16-
       

     

       

      

 
       
 

 

     

| Disbursement Implemen Prior Results to be | Resultstobe | Resultstobe | Results to be
| Linked ting Results Achieved in | Achieved in Achieved in Achieved in
| Indicators Institution | Achieved CY2020 CY2021 CY¥Z022Z CY2023

           
    
    
   
   
   
  
     
    
   
 

| published
| market prices

| Allocated

Amounts

(expressed in 10,000,000 10,000,000 30,000,000
it EUR A

    
  

   
  
   
   
   
   
 

   
   
  
   
   
  
 

   
   
 

    
    
  
    
    

     
  
  
  
   

      
    
    
    
 

  
   
  
 

     
  
   
  
 

    

   
 

         
  
   
 

DLR.8.0 DLR 8.1 DLR 8.2
MoH Annual Managed Entry
approved recalculated Agreement
the new prices for (MEA) signed
HTA medication by NHIH and
| methodolog | published on market
| DLI #8: y for the MoH authorization
Pharmaceutical inclusion of | website and holders for 50%
| MoH and
| measures NHI new drugs annual list of of newly
| revised for to the list of | reference assessed
| better efficienc drugs. prices patented drugs
published on with the
the NHIH conditional
website entry decision
using the new
HTA
oe See methodology

 
 
  

| Allocated

   
    

 
 
 
 

15,000,000 15,000,000 20,000,000

    
 

| (expressed in

 

*These DLRs are not time-bound. The calendar years in which they are expected to be achieved as
per this Schedule are strictly for indicative purposes. These DLRs can accordingly be met up and until
the Closing Date.

7
APPENDIX
Definitions

i. “‘Anti-corruption Guidelines” means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the Bank’s “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and
Corruption in Program-for-Results Financing,” dated February 1, 2012, and revised July
10, 2015.

ys “Annual Medical Checkup” means preventive checkup consultations for asymptomatic
adults to assess the risk of illness and case-management consultations to evaluate newly
diagnosed adult patients and actively monitor their conditions, carried out yearly by family
physicians based on the provisions of the Framework Contract (as defined hereunder). The
conditions included in case-management consultations are: hypertension, dyslipidemia,
diabetes type 2, asthma, COPD and chronic kidney disease.

a. “Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.

4. “Disbursement Linked Indicator” or “DLI”’ means in respect of a given Category, the
indicator related to said Category as set forth in the table in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2
to this Agreement.

5. “Disbursement Linked Result” or “DLR” means in respect of a given Category, the result

under said Category as set forth in the table in Schedule 4 to this Agreement in the columns
entitled “Prior Results Achieved”, “Results to be Achieved in CY20”, “Results to be
Achieved in CY21”, “Results to be Achieved in CY22’, or “Results to be Achieved in
CY23”, as applicable. For avoidance of doubt, the years stated in the respective columns
as temporal references for the achievement of any such DLRs are provided for indicative
purposes only, and unless otherwise expressly or implicitly required by the wording of a
given DLR, the DLRs can be achieved in advance or after such indicative period.

6. “Framework Contract” means the legal document, approved by the Borrower, defining the
health service package and the terms and conditions of their provision, including PHC
services (as defined hereinunder), to be provided within the Borrower’s social health
insurance system.

7 “General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Program-for-Results Financing”, dated
December 14, 2018.

8. “Independent Verification Agent” means the agent or agents referred to in Section III.B of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

9. “Ministry of Health” or “MoH” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Health or any successor
thereof acceptable to the Bank.

Me:
10.

12.

13.

iS.

16.

17.

18.

19.

20.

“Ministry of Public Finance” or “MoPF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Public Finance
or any successor thereof acceptable to the Bank.

“Metformin” means a prescription drug used to treat type 2 diabetes. For the purpose of
this Agreement, only first-time prescriptions of Metformin by PHC providers to patients
that previously were not treated for Diabetes will be accounted for.

“NHIH” means the Borrower’s National Health Insurance House, a public institution with
legal personality, established pursuant to Law No. 95/2006 on health reform, as
subsequently amended.

“ONAC” means the Borrower’s National Office for Centralized Procurement, a public
institution with legal personality, subordinated to the Ministry of Public Finance,
established pursuant to the Emergency Ordinance No. 46/2018 regarding the
establishment, organization and functioning of the National Office for Centralized
Procurement.

“Other Implementing Institutions” means: (i) the NHIH (as defined hereinafter); and (ii)
the ONAC (as defined hereinafter).

“PHC” means primary health care, as defined through the Law No. 95/2006 on Health
Reform, as subsequently amended.

‘Program Action Plan” means the Borrower’s plan dated June 21, 2019 and referred to in
Section I.B.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as may be amended from time to time with
the agreement of the Bank.

“Signature Date” means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the Bank
signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to “the date of the Loan
Agreement” in the General Conditions.

“Underserved Communities” means communes in the Borrower’s territory that have more
than 6 percent of their population living in census sectors that are marginalized in human
capital, employment and living conditions. A census sector is considered marginalized if
their index for human capital, employment and living conditions is below the national
benchmark value.

“Underserved Populations” means groups that face supply-side or demand-side barriers to
health care use, including: (1) the uninsured and the poor; and (2) people living in localities
that lack a family physician or in rural localities with a low density of family physicians.

“Verification Protocol” means the Borrower’s Verification Protocol, setting forth the
detailed criteria for the achievement of DLRs and means by which the same will be verified
under the Program, under terms satisfactory to the Bank, as such Verification Protocol may
be amended from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank.

-19-
