- Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

FFICIAI
Ir ti AL

IOCIIRAEAITO
{ % f 4 Fa ~ Peg.
SS et Yow i i icorem ONG i J

 

 

LOAN NUMBER 8939-IN

Loan Agreement

(Rajasthan State Highways Development Program II Project)

between
INDIA
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
 

ARE ARR IRIE ON RRE SR RRR INI SE os

LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between INDIA (“Borrower”) and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ami} The
Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:

1.01.

1.02.

2.01.

2.02.

2.03.

2.04.

2.05.

2.06.

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to and form
part of this Agreement.

Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.

ARTICLE U0 — LOAN

The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of two hundred fifty million United
States Dollars, (USD 250,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time
through a Currency Conversion (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in
Schedule | to this Agreement (“Project”).

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section III of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.

The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.

The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Variable Spread or such rate as may apply
following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General Conditions.

(a) If on any given day, the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit (as
said terms are defined in sub-paragraphs (b)(ii) and (b)(1i1) of this Section), the
Borrower shall pay to the Bank a surcharge at the rate of one half of one percent
(0.5%) per annum of the Allocated Excess Exposure Amount (as defined in sub-
paragraph (b)(i) of this Section) for each said day (“Exposure Surcharge”). The
Exposure Surcharge (if any) shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each
Payment Date.

(b) For purposes of this Section the following terms have the meanings set forth below:

(1) “Allocated Excess Exposure Amount” means for each day during which
the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit, the product of:
(A) the total amount of said excess; and (B) the ratio of all (or, if the Bank
so determines, a portion) of the Loan to the aggregate amount of all (or the
equivalent portions) of the loans made by the Bank to the Borrower, and
to other borrowers guaranteed by the Borrower that are also subject to an
 

2.07.

2.08.

4.01.

4.02.

5.01.

a2.

6.01.

exposure surcharge, as said excess and ratio are reasonably determined
from time to time by the Bank.

(ii) © “Standard Exposure Limit” means the standard limit on the Bank’s
financial exposure to the Borrower which, if exceeded, would subject the
Loan to the Exposure Surcharge, as determined from time to time by the
Bank.

(ili) | “Total Exposure” means for any given day, the Bank’s total financial
exposure to the Borrower, as reasonably determined by the Bank. |

The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.

ARTICLE UI — PROJECT

The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project Implementing Entities in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and the Project Agreement.

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK

The Additional Event of Suspension is that the RSH Act has been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the
Rajasthan State Highways Authority’s (“RSHA”) to perform any of its obligations under
the Project Agreement.

The Additional Event of Acceleration is that the event specified in Section 4.01 of this
Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of 60 days after notice of the event has
been given by the Bank to the Borrower.

ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that the PWD
has drafted and adopted an Operations Manual in a manner and substance satisfactory to
the Bank

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the Signature Date.
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

The Borrower’s Representative is any of the following officials, acting severally: the

Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary, or Under

Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower.

 
iaepenetenten hemreponemnists paren mmnnntncein cree acente einen pisabintiprcan j

AER ieee ARNT Go

SP aie sh eis

ATR ARETE SRS CHORE pam ce MR pM Ye a of

Mag age ERR REE A

So RIOR NAS: GROEN Sag ANET ERB ME STE. my

t

 

6.02. For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:

(a) the Borrower’s address is:

Secretary

Department of Economic Affairs
Ministry of Finance
Government of India

North Block

New Delhi 110 001

India; and

(b) the Borrower’s Electronic Address is:
Facsimile: E-mail:
+91-11-23094905 jsmi-dea@nic.in

6.03. For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:

(a) the Bank’s address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America; and

(b) the Bank’s Electronic Address is:

Telex: Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)

AGREED as of the Signature Date.

INDIA

By

 

Authorized Representative
Samet SIME Kunrtrkh Keree
Title: ABWNOWwArH SEcLETRET

Date: CUME 23 201 4
© neemenniemeeneneysncecnilllsiacrearmapsasndliasasicsamsscmansn
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

» Ghauks

Authorized Representative

 

 

Name: Stemseexe LAL

Title: e004 Counrey Serene, A
Date: owe 27 20/9

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

SEES SEARS. le ght OAR eM a re aaeic RCT NO

ts Monit gee ASA ERR at

SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to build capacity for better management of State Highways
and to improve traffic flows on Selected State Highways in the State of Rajasthan.

The Project consists of the following parts (“Components”):

Component |: Operationalization of the Rajasthan State Highways Authority

Supporting the institutional development and operationalization of RSHA through: (a)
establishing its organizational and governance structure; (b) setting up RSHA’s human
resource management, financing and financial management, procurement, contract
management, risk management and accountability systems and frameworks, including
environmental and social safeguard management functions; and (c) establishing and
operationalizing the RSHA Fund as per the RSH Act. |

Component 2: State Highways Improvements

(a) Upgrading and Maintenance through EPC Contracts: Widening, upgrading and improving
approximately 472 km of existing State Highways and Major District Roads to two
lane/four lane roads, through EPC Contracts with five-year maintenance requirements
post-construction, including: (i) realignment of road formation, provision of
granular/paved shoulders, provision of structures and strengthening of pavement; (ii)
design and deployment of ducting; (iii) safety improvement measures; and (iv) construction
of toll plazas.

(b) Supervision of EPC Contracts: Retaining the services of one or more Authority
Engineer(s).

(c) Upgrading and Maintenance through PPP/HAM Contracts: Widening, upgrading and
improving approximately 294 km of existing State Highways and Major District Roads to
two lane/four lane roads, through PPP/HAM Contracts contemplating their maintenance
during the ten-year concession period, including: (i) realignment of road formation,
provision of granular/paved shoulders, provision of structures and strengthening of
pavement; (ii) design and deployment of ducting and/or laying of fiber optic cables along
formation; (iii) safety improvement measures; (iv) construction of toll plazas; and (v)
piloting and demonstrating digital highways concept in approximately 110 km of State
Highways, through the design and implementation of intelligent transports systems,
including automated tol] management systems and control centers, incident detection and
management systems, variable message signs, speed management systems with license _
plate recognition, speed cameras, and solar-powered animal-crossing warning systems.

(d) Supervision of PPP/HAM Contracts: Retaining the services of one or more Independent
Engineer(s).
 

Component 3: Institutional Strengthening

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

Strengthening PWD’s Business Processes and Systems: (i) Developing an on-line project
management system and related smartphone application for PWD to handle contract
management, data reporting, quality control, invoicing, payments and financial reporting
electronically, on a web-based platform; (ii) developing an on-line management
information system for the implementation of SIA/SMP cum RAP(s) including geo-
reference data gathering features and related smartphone application to track resettlement
process on a real-time basis; and provision of training to PMU’s and PIUs’ staff on these
tools

Road Asset Management System (“RAMS”) and Network Planning Tool: (i) F inalizing and
implementing the RAMS in PWD and RSHA,; (ii) developing a linked system for future
highway network expansion/upgrading, and corresponding RSHA Investment Plans: and
(iii) strengthening the existing asset management cells in PWD and RSHA, including the
provision of training, communications and knowledge exchanges with other states and/or
countries.

Citizen Engagement and Accountability Mechanisms: Designing and implementing: (i) a
comprehensive communications strategy for Project beneficiaries and Affected Persons:
and (ii) a Gnevance Redress Mechanism.

Capacity Building of PWD’s and RSHA’s Staff: Providing training and building that
capacity of PWD and RSHA on, inter alia, procurement and financial management, public-
private partnership on highways, contract management, design of green and digital
highways, social and environmental safeguards, road safety and corporate governance,
including attending international and/or domestic courses, study tours, workshops,
international exposure visit, and other knowledge exchanges.

Component 4: Road Safety

(a)

(b)

Road Accident Database Management System: Developing and operationalizing a Road
Accident Database Management System (“RADMS”) including: (i) preparing a GIS-based
database system for recording, reporting (by community through smartphone application),
storing, analyzing and disseminating road accident information; (ii) development of
standard operating procedures; and (iii) implementation support to relevant stakeholders in
running the RADMS.

Streamlining and Piloting Speed Management: Piloting a speed management program
along selected high-risk corridors, including: (i) undertaking studies on current speed
management practices and preparing comprehensive guidelines on speed management
including recommendation on investment in relevant engineering measures, ITS and speed
enforcement activities; (ii) identification of approximately 100 km of high-risk corridors
in State Highways and Major District Roads for piloting speed management measures.

Road Safety Performance Survey: Carrying out comprehensive road safety performance
surveys on approximately 500 km of high-risk State Highways/Major District Roads to
establish their road safety levels.
 

 

(d)

(e)

J

Road Safety Strategy: Developing a long-term safety strategy based on safe systems
approach, including the identification of funding mechanisms and a multi-year action plan
to achieve acceptable road safety risk levels.

Spots Review of Approach to Black Spots: (i) Re-assessing the definition, identification and
remediation approaches to black spots; (ii) preparing guidelines on prioritization of
investment to improve black spots; and (iii) piloting improvement works on about 20 high-
priority black spots.

Component 5: Project Management Support

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

Project Management for PWD: Strengthening the institutional capacity of PPP Division
for the implementation of Components 2 through 5 of the Project and the performance of
financial management, procurement and safeguard compliance functions, as well as the
data collection and reporting as per the Project’s monitoring and evaluation requirements.

Project Management Consultant: Retaining the services of a Project Management
Consultant (“PMC”) to provide technical advice and implementation support to the PPP
Division in the implementation of Components 2 through 5 of the Project.

Independent Technical Audits and DLI Verification: Retaining the services of a Technical
Audit Consultant (“TAC”) to carry out annual integrated performance audits and the
verification of achievement of DLI(s)/DLR(s).

Road User Satisfaction Survey: Undertaking panel surveys of road user’s satisfaction on
the adequacy and efficiency of services provided under the Project.

 
 

SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Section I. Implementation Arrangements

On-lending Arrangements

To facilitate the Project Implementing Entities’ carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall
make the proceeds of the Loan available to Rajasthan in accordance with the Borrower’s
standard arrangements for developmental assistance to the States of India.

Notwithstanding paragraph 1 above, in the event that any provision of this Agreement,
including the instructions that the Bank shall have specified by notice to the Borrower
pursuant to Section 2.01(b) of the General Condition (including the Disbursement and
Financial Information Letter), were to be found inconsistent with the Borrower’s standard
arrangements for development assistance to the States of India, the provisions of this
Agreement and related instructions shall prevail.

The Borrower shall protect its own interests and the interests of the Bank to accomplish
the purpose of the Loan.

Section I. Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

The Borrower shall cause Rajasthan to ensure that PWD and/or RSHA, as the case may be,
furnish to the Bank each Project Report for their Respective Parts of the Project, not later
than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, covering the calendar
semester. ,

Section I. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

A.

 

General.

Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and in

accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the Borrower may
withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to: (a) finance Eligible Expenditures; and (b) pay: (i)
the Front-end Fee; and (ii) each Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar premium; in the
amount allocated and, if applicable, up to the percentage set forth against each Category of
the following table:
2 CARABINERS Hine ost

 
  

Percentage of
Expenditures to be
financed

Amount of the Loan
Category . Allocated

(expressed in USD) (inclusive of Taxes)

ESE TREAD pn jae |OUR neta sac

| (1) Goods, works, non-consulting
services, consulting services,
Training and Workshops, and 249,375,000

Incremental Operating Costs for
the Project

see We es mM coenet

Amount payable pursuant

to Section 2.03 of this

Front-end Fee 625,000 Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of
the General Conditions

Amount due pursuant to
Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Section 4.05 (c) of the

Collar premium General Conditions

TOTAL AMOUNT 250,000,000 |

B. Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.

 

L. Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A above, no withdrawal shall be made:

(a) for payments made prior to the Signature Date, except that withdrawals up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed fifty million United States dollars ((USD]
50,000,000) may be made under Category (1) above, for payments made prior to
this date but on or after April 15, 2018 for the financing of Eligible Expenditures;
or

(b) under Category (1) above unless and until the Borrower has furnished to the Bank
evidence, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank that:

(1) (A) the RSHA Cell has been established with the deputation of two
senior official from Rajasthan’s civil service, and the
hiring/recruitment of at least two (out of five) key experts from
market, as set forth in the Operations Manual;

(B) RSHA Board has commenced/assumed its functions, with at least
the Chairperson (appointed as per regular appointment) and the
four full-time members (i.e. Finance, Safety &. Technology:
Works, Contracts & Operations; and Concessions & Public-
Private Partnerships) appointed and in place;

(C) Rajasthan has created/opened a budget-head for RSHA under
PWD’s budget-head:

FERS EGR RRA a RE Nd GR Saas a i lr nT ANA RE CARA ore FED aaa pene Ala aN rela A RS Dae UL aaa ele Ah eae Sh tm Oe Le, ae Pa pe ae A fee otis. (Cer

I neh pls hci we cheer n alice ee setae ag ata ears EAMES PH arn PIE Sp NRE OER A hae ep
 

wl th

(D) —_ DLRs 2.8 and 2.9 of DLI 2 have been met and documents pursuant
to sub-paragraph (ii) below; and

(11) the DLR(s) with respect to which the withdrawal has been requested has
been fully achieved, including the relevant Verification Report(s)
certifying: (i) the achievement of the such DLR(s); and (ii) the Borrower’s
incurrence of payments, and/or reasonable forecast of payments to be
incurred, consistent with the Eligible Expenditures, and in compliance

with the safeguards and procurement arrangements provided for in this

Agreement, the Project Agreement, the Operations Manual.

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.1(b) of this Section II:

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

if, with respect to any DLR(s), the Bank is not satisfied that such DLR(s) has/have
been fully achieved by the end of the DLR Period corresponding to such DLR in
the table in Schedule 3 to this Agreement, then the Bank may, at any time, by
notice to the Borrower, and at its sole discretion, decide to:

authorize the withdrawal of such lesser amount of the unwithdrawn proceeds of
the Allocated Amounts corresponding to any such DLR(s) under DLIs #1; #2:
and/or #7, as well as DLR(s) #3.(f); #6.(b); #6.(c); and/or #9.(e), which, in the
opinion of the Bank, corresponds to the extent of the achievement of said DLR(s),
said lesser amount to be calculated in accordance with the respective formulae set
out in Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and/or

withhold all or a portion of the proceeds of the Loan corresponding to the Allocated
Amounts for the unmet DLR(s) until such DLR(s) is/are, in the opinion of the
Bank, satisfactorily achieved; and/or

reallocate all or a portion of the proceeds of the Loan corresponding to the
Allocated Amounts of the unmet DLR(s) to any other DLR(s); and/or

cancel all or a portion of the proceeds of the Loan corresponding to the Allocated
Amounts then allocated to any unmet DLR(s).

The Closing Date is March 29, 2024.

Ineligible Expenditures

The following expenditures shall not be considered Eligible Expenditures for purposes of
this Loan, and the Borrower shall ensure, and cause the Project Implementing Entities to
ensure that such expenditures are financed exclusively out of the Project Implementing
Entities’ own resources, and not out of the proceeds of the Loan, namely:

(a)

any amounts paid, and/or expenditures incurred, by RSHA prior to the Bank’s
carrying out the readiness assessment set forth in Section I.A.2(b) of the Schedule
to the Project Agreement, other than the amounts disbursed and expenditures
incurred by PWD, through its RSHA Cell, on behalf of RSHA;

2
ROSEANNE TS RY RICANS 3

2 naga ~

aap

4
FE
:
:
:
i
€
£
:
B
é
:

(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

(f)

(g)
(h)

G)

-ll-

any expenditures incurred in relation to contracts procured by RSHA prior to the
Bank’s carrying out the readiness assessment set forth in Section I.A.2(b) of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement, other than the amounts disbursed and
expenditures incurred by RSHA Cell on behalf of RSHA;

any agency charges and/or centage charges collected, or to be collected, by the
Project Implementing Entities or other Rajasthan’s agencies, divisions and/or
departments responsible for carrying out the Project;

any amounts paid, or to be paid, on account of land acquisition required for the
purpose of the Project;

any compensation, resettlement and rehabilitation payments made, or to be made,
to Affected Persons in accordance with the provision of the RPF and/or the
investment-specific SLA/SMP cum RAP(s);

any compensatory afforestation payments made or to be made pursuant to the EMF
or the investment-specific EMP(s); .

any interest during construction;

any retention money deducted from contract payments, and not released by
Closing Date;

any purchase of arms and/or ammunition or any expenses incurred for the training
of any personnel in the use of arms and/or ammunition; and

any expenditures objected or considered ineligible during any Bank’s review, or
by the project internal auditors, or the independent auditors in the Project’s
Financial Statements prepared pursuant to Section 5.09 of the General Conditions.

 
13.

SCHEDULE 3

Disbursement Linked Indicators, Disbursement Linked Results and Allocated Amounts

DISBURSEMENT-LINKED

INDICATORS

. 1. Highway Improvements

2. Operationalization of RSHA

 

 

DISBURSEMENT-LINKED

RESULTS

. Four hundred seventy-two

(472) kilometers (km) of roads
executed through EPC
Contracts

. Two hundred ninety-three

(293) km of roads executed
through PPP/HAM Contracts.

. The RSHA Chairperson and

Board members have been
appointed

. The Cabinet has approved the

Rules & Regulations for the
RSHA

. Rajasthan has allocated budget

for the initial operations of
RSHA

. Rajasthan has notified the |
Rules & Regulations for RSHA

. RSHA Board has approved

RSHA Organizational
Structure and Staffing Plan

. RSHA has appointed: {i) its

management cadre (other than
the RSHA Chairperson and
RSHA Board members); and
(ii) technical staff

. The RSHA Board has approved

the RSHA Business Model

ALLOCATED AMOUNTS

USD 10 million upon execution of
30 km, plus USD 4 million for
every additional 20 km thereafter,
up to a maximum amount of USD

~ 103 million

USD 10 million upon execution of
30 km, plus USD 4 million for
every additional 20 km thereafter,
up to a maximum amount of USD
69 million

USD 7 million

USD 6 million

USD 5 million

USD 5 million

USD 5 million

(1) USD 2 million upon the
appointment of at least 60% of
managerial cadre; plus USD 2

million upon appointment of 100%
of managerial cadre; and

(ii) USD 2 million upon the
appointment of at least 60% of the

| technical staff; plus USD 2 million

upon appointment of 100% of the
technical staff

USD 7 million

 
-[3-

   
 

   
   
 
 

        
  
 

DISBURSEMENT-LINKED
RESULTS

DISBURSEMENT-LINKED
INDICATORS

  
  

ALLOCATED AMOUNTS

USD 5 million
development and maintenance

USD 5 million
of State Highways

2.10. RSHA has adopted the RAMS USD 5 million
2.11. RSHA Board has approved the USD 5 million

RSHA Investment Plan
USD 5 million

USD 7 million

  

  

2.8. The Cabinet has approved the
Financial Management Rules
for the RSHA

 
   
 
   
  

2.9. Rajasthan has earmarked at
least 50% of the annual
resources of the State Road
Development Fund for the

  
   
   
   
     
  

  
   
 
 

  
 

2.12. Rajasthan has approved the
PWD-RSHA Transition
Strategy & Plan prepared by
the RSHA Cell

 
   
   
 
 
 
 

  

2.13. RSHA and PWD have
implemented the PWD-RSHA
Transition Strategy & Plan

 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
  

   
  
  
  
   

USD 2 million upon the signing of
new, and/or assignment assumption,
of existing, contracts covering at
least 2,000 km, plus USD | million
for the contracting or assumption of
contracts for every additional 1000
km thereafter; up to a maximum
amount of USD 11.5 million

 
  
  
  
 

2.14. RSHA has signed contracts for
upgrading, rehabilitating and/or
maintaining 10,000 km of State

Highways

     
 
 
 

 
 

2.15. RSHA had drafted, and the
RSHA Board has approved the
first Service Level Agreements
between (i) RSHA and
Rajasthan’s government; and
(ii) RSHA and its cadre of
executive managers

 
 
 
 

   

   

USD 5 million

 
   
   
 
 
 
 

 
  

. PWD has fully developed the
RADMS

  
 
 
  
   
  
 
  
 

USD 5 million

    
    
  
 

USD 3 million upon the roll out of
the RADMS to a minimum of 20
Police District Offices, plus; USD 2
million upon the rolling out of the
RADMS in the remaining 14 Police
District Offices for a total of 34
Police District Offices

     

    

3. Road Safety Improvements 3.2. The Rajasthan Police has rolled
out the RADMS to all thirty-
four (34) Police District

Offices

      
     
   
 
he

SCHEDULE 4
Annuity Principal Repayments!

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage of the
total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date (“Installment Share”).

8

   
 

        
  
 
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

2

   
  
 
  

 
 
 
 
 
 

3
3
3

   

8
.

November 15, 2040

ee

 

' The determination of the principal amounts of the Loan repayable on each Principal Payment Date is made
in accordance with Section 3.03 of the General Conditions.

 
ERE RN TE ei Rn eR

oe cen

soiainastiaaintiaitansiithttitincnenen hiatal sama aeebiiiaeanee dia euieid tues on sn aman cea adn bodes ot

 

 

November 15, 2041
November 15, 2042

November 15, 2043

 

-15-

60%
| 3.78%

4.14%

 

 

 
 

-16-

APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

l.

“Affected Person” means persons who, on account of the execution of the Project, have
experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts caused by: (a) the
involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of shelter: (i1) loss of assets or
access to assets; or (111) loss of income sources or means of livelihood, whether or not such
persons must move to another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally
designated parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impact on the livelihoods of such
persons.

“Allocated Amounts” means the amount allocated to each individual DLR, or determined
for each DLR pursuant to the respective formula, set forth in the third column of the table
provided in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and Corruption
in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”, dated October 15 , 2006
and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.

“Authority Engineer(s)” means any engineering consulting firm(s) hired, or to be hired, by
PWC pursuant to Section I.A.3(c) of the Project Agreement.

“Cabinet” means the Cabinet of Ministers of Rajasthan’s government.

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IILA of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.

“Component” means each of the five sets of Project,activities grouped under the titles: “/
Operationalization of the Rajasthan State Highways Authority;” “2. State Highways
Improvements;” “3 Institutional Strengthening;” “4. Road Safety,” and “5. Project
Management Support”’, in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

“Disbursement Linked Indicators” dnd the acronym “DLI” mean each of the
disbursement-linked indicators set forth in the first column of the table provided in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

“Disbursement Linked Results” and the acronym “DLR” mean each of the disbursement-
linked targets/results set forth in the second column of the table provided in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

“EMF” means the Project Implementing Entities’ ‘Environmental Management
Framework”, disclosed on the Bank’s website on June 29, 2018, setting forth the guiding
principles, processes and procedures for: (a) the screening of Project activities and the
identification of any adverse or positive environmental impacts caused, or expected to be
caused, on account of their implementation; and (b) the preparation and implementation of
the prescribed EMP(s) pursuant to Section I.D.2 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement,

 
 

at Ace RAN AT ce aR RR tana rg NBER. ntinecn coe Arwheiands

Moe era Nae PTR AN RIERA YES OMENS

11.

12.

13.

14.

be

16.

17.

Fj.

as such framework may be revised, updated or supplemented from time to time with the |
prior written concurrence of the Bank.

“EMP” means each of the Project Implementing Entities’ environmental management
plans (to be) prepared pursuant to Section [.D.2(b) of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement and in accordance with the provisions of the EMF, in each case setting out
mitigation, enhancement, monitoring and institutional measures, including capacity
building through training, required to: (i) eliminate adverse environmental impacts of
activities to be implemented under the Project; (ii) offset them, or reduce them to
acceptable levels; (iii) enhance any positive impacts thereof: and/or (iv) ensure compliance
with Borrower’s and Rajasthan’s statutory environmental requirements; as such plans may
be revised, updated or supplemented from time to time with the prior written concurrence
of the Bank.

“EPC Contract” means an engineering-procurement-construction composite contract,
whereby the contractor takes comprehensive responsibility for the design, execution and
maintenance of the respective asset, in each case on the basis of the model form of
agreement agreed between the Bank and the Project Implementing Entity.

“Financial Management Rules” means the rules and procedures governing the budgeting,
accounting and record keeping of RSHA’s expenses and the use of its financial resources,
the segregation of financial duties and decision-making authorities, the internal control
protocols, and the internal arrangements for the flow of funds, asset management, and
reporting and auditing requirements, as further detailed in the Verification Protocol.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project Financing”, dated July 14,
2017.

“GIS” means a geographical information system capturing, analyzing, managing and
presenting spatial and geographic data in respect of the Project Implementing Agency’s
State Highways and/or Major District Roads.

“Grievance Redress Mechanism” means the grievance-processing and redress mechanism
to be established by the Rajasthan pursuant to Section I.D.7 of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement.

“Incremental Operating Costs” means the incremental expenses incurred by PWD and/or
RSHA (for the latter, after a satisfactory readiness assessment as set forth in Section
[.A.2(b) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement), on account of the management,
implementation, monitoring and/or evaluation of the Project, including, but no limited to:
per diem and allowances, office rent, office supplies, utilities, conveyance, travel and
boarding/lodging allowances, operating and maintenance expenditures of office equipment
and vehicles, bank charges, insurance, advertising, media projections, newspaper
subscriptions, periodicals, and printing and stationary costs incurred for the purposes of
Project activities; but excluding salaries, fees, honoraria, bonuses, and any other salary
supplements of members of Rajasthan’s civil service and/or RHSA’s staff.

“Independent Engineer(s)” means the engineering firm(s) hired, or to be hired, by PWD
pursuant to Section I.A.3(d) of the Project Agreement.
 

19.

20.

21.

22.

23.

24.

ao.

26.

27.

-[8-

“km” means kilometers.

“Major District Roads” means important roads within Rajasthan’s district serving areas of
production and markets. Major District Roads may connect with each other or with national
and/or State Highways.

“Operations Manual” means the operations manual for the Project to be prepared by the
PWD, in a manner and substance satisfactory to the Bank, and as a condition precedent for
the effectiveness of this Loan, such manual to comprise, inter alia: (i) the Project
implementation arrangements, including the setup of the RSHA Cell, PMU and PIUs, the
identification of key relevant staff, allocation of responsibilities and decision making
powers; (ii) the protocol and timelines for the preparation of annual work plans; (iii) the
screening protocols and procedures for the selection of State Highways for Project
interventions; (iv) the DLIs/DLRs verification protocols and arrangements, and the terms
of reference for the TAC; (v) the protocols and procedures for the Grievance Redress
Mechanism; (vi) the Project monitoring and evaluation, and reporting requirements; (vii)
guidance on segregation of financial duties, internal control protocols, accounting and
record keeping procedures, funds flow arrangements, withdrawal applications procedures,
asset management, and reporting and auditing arrangements; and (viii) guidance on
Segregation of procurement management duties, procedural steps and criteria for the
preparation of bidding documents, invitation and evaluation of bids and contract awards;
as such manual be revised, updated or supplemented from time to time with the prior
written concurrence of the Bank.

“PIU” means each of the Project implementation units established as PWD’s field (district)
offices pursuant to Notification No F.1.(34)/PW/2007, dated June 21, 2017, and referred
to in Section I.A.3.(a)(ii) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.

“PMU” means the Project management unit established within PWD for purposes of
implementing Components 2, 3, 4 and 5 of the Project, pursuant to Office Order No Sec.
/A/2014/82, dated April 23, 2014, and referred to in Section [.A.3(a)(i) of the Schedule to
the Project Agreement.

“Police District Offices” means the district-level offices of Rajasthan Police.

“PPP Division” means the public-private-partnership division of PWD, or any successor
thereto.

“PPP/HAM Contract” means the public-private partnership hybrid annuity model contracts
whereby the contractor takes comprehensive responsibility for the design, execution and
maintenance and partial financing of the respective asset through debt and/or equity, in
exchange of pre-agreed semi-annual annuity payments from the Project Implementing
Entity, in each case on the basis of the model form agreements agreed between the Bank
and the Project Implementing Entity.

“Procurement Regulations” means, for purposes of paragraph 85 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the “World Bank Procurement Regulations for IPF Borrowers”, dated
July 2016, revised in November 2017 and August 2018.

 
 

Seah aaa mae RCN

ets

eh eRR aR

2 oe ARAN sR URIAREE A ee it re ROR SRE

28.

29.

30.

ak;

D2.

33.

34.

35.

36.

37.

38.

-19-

“Project Implementing Entity” means both the State of Rajasthan and RSHA, acting
severally, and the term “Project Implementing Entities” means, collectively, both the State
of Rajasthan and RSHA.

“Project Management Consultant” and the acronym “PMC” mean the consulting firm
hired, or to be hired, by PWD pursuant to Section 1.A.3(e) of the Project Agreement.

“Public Works Department” and the acronym “PWD” mean the Rajasthan’s’ Public Works
Department, or any successor thereto.

“PWD-RSHA Transition Strategy & Plan” means the time-bound transition strategy and
action plan for the transfer of assets and human resources from Rajasthan (PWD) to RSHA,
as further detailed in the Verification Protocol.

“Rajasthan” means the Borrower’s State of Rajasthan (the Project Implementing Entities).
“Rajasthan Police” means the Rajasthan’s police administration.

“Rajasthan State Highways Authority” and the acronym “RSHA” mean the authority

established pursuant to Notification S.O. 38 (F.14(26)PW/2014) of June 2, 2015, and
Section 44 of the RSH Act (one of the Project Implementing Entities).

“Respective Parts of the Project” means:

(a) For PWD: Component | (until the implementation responsibilities are transferred
to RSHA as per Section .A.1 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement) and
Components 2, 3, 4 and 5; and

(b) For RSHA: Component 1, upon the transfer of implementation responsibilities
from/by PWD pursuant to Section I.A.2 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.

“Road Accident Database Management System” and the acronym “RADMS” mean the
standalone or commercial-of-the-shelf accidents database management system, to be
developed and/or customized by PWD pursuant to Sub-component 4(a) of the Project,
comprising, inter alia, community data collection modules, analytical modules, reporting
modules, mobile apps for data gathering, and a GIS platform.

“Road Asset Management Systems” and the acronym “RAMS” mean the asset
management system being developed by PWD under “Component B: Road Sector
Modernization and Performance Enhancement” of the “Rajasthan Road Sector
Modernization Project,” financed by the International Development Association, pursuant
to Credit No. 5310-IN.

“RPF” means the Project Implementing Entities’ “Resettlement Policy Framework’,
disclosed by the Bank on August 6, 2018, setting forth the guiding principles, acceptable
standards and procedures for: (a) the screening of Project activities and the identification
of any Affected Persons, on account of their implementation; and (b) the preparation of
their prescribed SIA/SMP cum RAP(s), as applicable; as such framework may be revised,
updated or supplemented from time to time with the prior written concurrence of the Bank.
 

a.

40.

41.

42.

43.

45.

46.

47.

48.

49.

Jit.

“RSH Act” means the Rajasthan State Highways Act, 2014 (Act No. 22 of 2015) published
by Rajasthan in the Rajasthan Gazette pursuant to Notification F.2(32) in Jaipur on May 1,
2015.

“RSHA Board” means the RSHA governing body, established pursuant to Section 44 (3)
of the RSH Act, to be elected pursuant to Section 44.(4) of the RSH Act, and comprised of
the Chairperson and four full members and three part time members.

“RSHA Business Model” means the business model to be prepared by RSHA defining the
authority corporate model, key performance indicators, service delivery strategy, financial
strategy and projections, and accountability mechanisms towards the public as well as the
Government of Rajasthan, as a per the rule and regulations issued under the RSH Act: and
as further detailed in the Verification Protocol.

“RSHA Cell” means the implementation unit established within PWD for purposes of
implementing Component | of the Project, pursuant to Order No F. 7(404) SHA/PPP/2018-
19/D-1576, dated March 7, 2019, and referred to in Section LA.2(a) of the Schedule to the
Project Agreement.

“RSHA Chairperson” means the chairperson of the RSHA referred to in Section 44(3)(a)
of the RSH Acct, to be elected pursuant to Section 44(4) of the RSH Act.

“RSHA Fund” means the fund referred to in Section 68 of the RSH Act.

“RSHA Investment Plan” means the investment plan to be prepared by RSHA for the
development/maintenance of the State Highways transferred to it, including, inter alia, the
prioritization of roads for targeted interventions (i.e. rehabilitation, upgradation and/or
maintenance), the respective budget estimates, and resource planning, as further detailed
in the Verification Protocol.

“RSHA Organizational Structure and Staffing Plan” means the organizational structure and

staffing plans to be prepared and adopted by RSHA, which shall include, inter alia, the

authority’s organogram showing reporting hierarchies among functional units and their
roles and responsibilities, a skill mapping of its required human resources, staffing
estimates, staff acquisition strategy and training plans: successions strategy and benefit
packages therefor based on the RSHA Business Model, as further detailed in the
Verification Protocol.

“Rules & Regulations” means the rules and regulations to be issued by the Rajasthan and/or
the RSHA pursuant to Sections 102 and 103 of the RSH Act, respectively, and as further
detailed in the Verification Protocol.

“Safeguard Documents” means, collectively, the EMF and RPF, as well as the investment
specific EMP(s), and SLA/SMP cum RAP(s) (to be) prepared pursuant to Section I.D.2 of
the Schedule to the Project Agreement.

“Selected State Highways” means the State Highways covered under Project interventions
and investments.

na ee ee ey

sei RON SC ee eset

 
 

clahehiiasiiaaniiiaahabemiaiaenisiaieenasen tices

SEE a, RR ARNE RAYES tag it RE REE ae. eae NOIR det ABO RSet HAA RNP TCE au ae 2 a

50.

51.

De

ae

54.

ae.

56.

ore

58.

39:

-21-

“Service Level Agreement” means any of the performance agreements, aimed at enhancing
accountability, to be entered into by and between: (a) RSHA and Rajasthan’s government _
and (b) RSHA and its cadre of executive managers, in both cases setting forth the key
performance indicators and service standards (e.g. State Highway safety level and
operability standards, service efficiency targets and public satisfaction levels, etc.) for
RHSA’s and its managers’ discharge of their responsibilities under the RSH Act, and as
further detailed in the Verification Protocol.

“SIA/SMP cum RAP” means each of the Project Implementing Entities’ social impact
assessment and social management plan cum resettlement action plans prepared, or to be
prepared, pursuant to Section [.D.2 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement and in
accordance with the provisions of the RPF, in each case identifying the Affected Persons
on account of implementation of Project activities, and setting forth the terms and
conditions for providing them with resettlement assistance and/or compensation, as well
the procedures to be applied in the identification, assessment and mitigation of potential
Project related social impacts, including the protocols for consultation, the processing of
complaints and grievance redressal, monitoring and reporting requirements, and the
Affected Persons’ entitlement schedules; as such plans may be revised, updated or
supplemented from time to time with the prior written concurrence of the Bank.

“Signature Date” means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the Bank
signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to “the date of the Loan
Agreement” in the General Conditions.

“State Road Development Fund” means the Rajasthan’s state roads fund established
pursuant to Sub-Section (1) of Section 6, Chapter III, of the Rajasthan State Road
Development Fund Act, 2004 (Act No. 13 of 2004), notified in Jaipur on August 10
(Notification F.2(19) Vidhi-2/2004).

“State Highways” means collectively, each of the roads included in the Schedule to the
RSH Act, and any additional road declared as a state highway by the government of
Rajasthan for time to time, pursuant to Section 3 of the RSH Act.

“State of Rajasthan” means the Borrower’s State of Rajasthan (one of the Project
Implementing Entities).

“Sub-component” means each of the sub-sets of Project activities, grouped in separate
paragraph under Components 2 through S.

“Technical Audit Consultant” and the acronym “TAC” mean the consulting firm(s) hired,
or to be hired, by PWD pursuant to Section I.A.3(f) of the Project Agreement.

“The Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal)
Act” means the Borrower’s Act No. 14 of 2013 of April 22 2013, published in The
Gazette of India on April 23, 2013, as amended and/or supplemented to the date of this
Agreement.

“Training and Workshops” means the reasonable costs of training, workshops and
conferences required for the Project and conducted in the territory of the Borrower and,
subject to the Bank’s prior approval, overseas, including training institutional and course
 

 

ee Sean nace cer

60.

61.

ee.

fees, logistics expenses, rental of training facilities, purchase and publication of training
materials, and travel and subsistence allowance for trainers and/or trainees.

“Verification Protocol” means the DLI/DLRs verification protocol agreed on February 19,
2019 between the Borrower, the Project Implementing Entities and the Bank, for purposes
of: (i) defining the DLR terms and requirements: (ii) listing the documentary evidence to
be provided in support thereof; and (iv) providing the verification procedures and
responsibilities to certify compliance with/achievement of each DLY/DLR, as such
verification protocol may be revised, updated or supplemented from time to time between
mutual agreement among the Borrower, the Project Implementing Entities and the Bank.

“Verification Report” means each of the reports to be prepared by the Technical Audit
Consultant pursuant to Section II.B of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, in
accordance with the verification protocol agreed with the Bank, for purposes of certifying
the achievements of DLI(s)/DLR(s) and the incurrence of Eligible Expenditures, which
reports shall serve as the basis for the processing of Loan withdrawal applications pursuant
to Section II.B.1(b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

sg mePnecabie tee

SPT PN re PE PE mira te RSD Ae nk be OernewNBI ae salar ng Rg info POL eM

 
