Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

LOAN NUMBER 8963-PY

Loan Agreement

(Paraguay Public Health Sector Strengthening Project)

between
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY

(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:

1.02.

2.03.

2.04.

2S:

2.06.

2.07.

AL:

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to and form
part of this Agreement.

Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.

ARTICLE IT — LOAN
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of one hundred fifteen million Dollars
(USD 115,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1

to this Agreement (“Project”).

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section III of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.

The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.

The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Fixed Spread or such rate as may apply
following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General Conditions.

The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.

ARTICLE Ill — PROJECT
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the

Borrower shall carry out the Project through MSPBS in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
4.01.

4.02.

5.01.

6.02.

ie

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK

The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that Law No. 1032
has been amended, suspended or abrogated so as to affect, materially and adversely, the
execution of the Project.

The Additional Events of Acceleration consists of the following, that any event specified
in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of 30 days after
notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower.

ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:

(a) That the PIU has been established and staffed as provided under Section I.A.1 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.

(b) That the Borrower has prepared and adopted the Operational Manual in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank.

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and eighty (180) days after the
Signature Date.

ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Finance.
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Borrower’s address is:
Ministry of Finance
(Ministerio de Hacienda)
Chile 128
Asuncion, Paraguay;
With a copy to:
State Sub-secretariat of Financial Management of the Ministry of Finance
(Subsecretaria de Estado de Administracion Financiera del Ministerio de Hacienda)

and

(b) the Borrower’s Electronic Address is:

Facsimile: E-mail:

5952 1-448-283 secretaria_general@hacienda.gov.py
With a copy to:

Facsimile:

5952 1-493-641
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Bank’s address is:

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America; and

(b) the Bank’s Electronic Address is:
Telex: Facsimile: E-mail:

248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391 jhentschel@worldbank.org
64145(MCI)
AGREED as of the Signature Date.

REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
By IL uu / i—*

+ Kathorized Representative

Name: Benigno (A. Lopez
Title: Miniter of nance
Date: 06/03/2019

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

 

Title: Rea onal Vice resident
Date: Ob|03 | 204 q

HONORARY WITNESS FOR
THE REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY

Name: , [ 10 Uc XZZ\ yeni
Title: Minister ot Keath
-5-

SCHEDULE 1
Project Description

The objectives of the Project are to: (i) strengthen the Public Primary Health Care Micro-
Networks; and (ii) expand access to quality primary health care services for the population covered
by the MSPBS.

The Project, deemed feasible by the National System of Public Investment of the Borrower
(SNIP Code N ° 805), consists of the following parts:

Part 1: Investments to strengthen the service delivery capacity of Public Primary Health Care
Micro-Networks.

Provision of financing for the strengthening of PPHCMNs to provide quality health care services
to people under different Selected ICS, through:

(a) (i) The construction of new FHCCs and the rehabilitation of infrastructure in
district hospitals in Prioritized Departments; and (ii) the rehabilitation of
infrastructure in existing FHCCs and the conversion of health posts to FHCCs.

(b) The provision of medical equipment, furniture, information and communication
technology for: (1) all FHCCs and district hospitals rehabilitated under Part 1(a)(i),
to improve the quality of primary health care services; and (ii) the central level of
the MSPBS to support the central management and monitoring of the functioning
of PPHCMNs and the maintenance and management of a national database of
beneficiaries.

(c) The carrying out of capacity building activities for MSPBS staff and other health
staff working on the public health sector selected pursuant to the criteria set forth
in the Operational Manual.

(d) The provision of specific support services for the: (i) institutional strengthening to
improve the performance of PPHCMNs at central and local level; (ii) design of a
mass communication and social media strategy to promote the population’s
behavioral change; and (iii) establishment of efficient procurement and logistic
mechanisms for medicines and medical supplies.

Part 2: Improvements in the access to quality health services through priority Integrated

Care Sets.

Making Capitation Payments for the provision of Selected ICS.

Part 3: Project Administration and Implementation Support.

Provision of financing for Project implementation and supervision, including, inter alia, the
provision of support for Project management, the carrying out of fiduciary tasks, the management
of environmental and social risks, the monitoring and evaluation of the Project and the carrying out
of the Project’s financial audit.
Section I.

sb

SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Implementation Arrangements

Institutional Arrangements.

l. For the purposes of assisting the MSPBS in the overall coordination, management,
supervision and monitoring of the Project, the Borrower, through MSPBS, shall establish,
and thereafter operate and maintain, throughout Project implementation, a unit within the
MSPBS (the PIU), to manage Project implementation with functions and responsibilities
acceptable to the Bank and staffed with a Project coordinator, a monitoring and evaluation
specialist, a financial management specialist, a procurement specialist, a social safeguards
specialist, an environmental safeguards specialist, and a result based financing specialist,
as well as any other technical experts and other personnel deemed necessary from time to
time, in number and with qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank.

2. For the purposes of implementing Part 2 of the Project, the Borrower shall, through
MSPBS:
(a) (i) Develop, in agreement with the Bank, a matrix of results areas and indicator

(b)

targets (the “Results Areas”) in number and substance to be recorded in the
Operational Manual, for the purposes of monitoring the achievement of such
indicator targets and transferring the Capitation Payments on a periodic basis to
LHCs, all under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank; and (ii) review at least
once every year the value of the Capitation Payments, and the Selected ICS and
adjust them as necessary, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.

For purposes of making Capitation Payments under Part 2 of the Project the
Borrower, through MSPBS, shall enter into an agreement for the participation of
the LHC (the “Participation Framework Agreement” (PFA)) with the respective
Participating LHC, setting forth the technical, financial, administrative, safeguard
and fiduciary aspects of the MSPBS and LHC participation in the implementation
and use of funds under the Project, in form and substance acceptable to the Bank,
and pursuant to a form included in the Operational Manual.

After entering into the respective PFA, and every two years (or another period
adjusted with the prior agreement of the Bank) thereafter, starting on the year of
the Effective Date and counting from January | thereafter, (i) enter into a results
management agreement (the “Results Management Agreement”) with each
Participating LHC, setting forth periodic performance indicator targets for the
Results Areas, work programs, resource requirements for the implementation of
the Project, and the monitoring and accountability arrangements, all under terms
and conditions acceptable to the Bank; (ii) exercise its rights and carry out its
obligations under each Results Management Agreement in such a manner as to
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes
of the Loan; and (iii) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, not assign, amend,
abrogate, repeal, terminate, waive or fail to enforce any Results Management
Agreement or any provision thereof.

(d) Maintain during the execution of the Project a team, with composition,
qualifications, experience and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank,
responsible for performing biannual (or any other interval acceptable to the Bank)
verifications of the Assigned Population and on the performance indicator targets
achieved under the Results Areas, including, inter alia, spot checks, verification
of data provided and records kept by LHCs, all in a manner satisfactory to the Bank
and in accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual.

Operational Manual.

Without limitation to Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower, through MSPBS, shall
carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of a manual (the Operational
Manual), acceptable to the Bank, said manual to include, inter alia: (a) the terms of
reference, functions and responsibilities for the personnel of the PIU responsible for the
coordination, monitoring, evaluation and fiduciary tasks of the Project; (b) the criteria,
detailed rules and procedures for the Capitation Payments; (c) procedures for procurement
of goods, non-consulting services and consulting services, as well as for financial
management and audits of the Project; (d) the indicators to be used in the monitoring and
evaluation of the Project; (e) the Results Areas; (f) the verification protocols for the
determination, measurement and control of results under the Results Areas; (g) the
procedures for the revision and adjustment of the Results Areas and the Selected ICS; (h)
the flow of funds and disbursement arrangements of Loan proceeds; and (i) the criteria for
selecting and carrying out capacity building activities for MSPBS staff and other health
staff working on the public health sector under Part 1(c) of the Project.

Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, waive or fail to
enforce the Operational Manual, or any provision thereof. In case of any conflict between
the provisions of this Agreement and those of the Operational Manual or, the provisions of
this Agreement shall prevail.

Safeguards.

The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out with due regard to appropriate
health, safety, social, and environmental standards and practices, and in accordance with
the Safeguards Instruments.

The Borrower shall ensure that all bidding documents and contracts for civil works under
the Project include the obligation of contractors, subcontractors and supervising entities to:
(a) comply with the relevant aspects of Safeguards Instruments; (b) adopt and implement
measures to assess and manage the risks and impacts of labor influx; and (c) adopt and
enforce codes of conduct that should be provided to and signed by all workers, detailing
measures on environmental, social, health and safety, gender-based violence and violence
against children; all as applicable to such civil works commissioned or carried out pursuant
to said contracts.
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project does not include any activities involving
resettlement, as defined under the Safeguards Policies.

Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that none of the
provisions of the Safeguard Instruments is abrogated, amended, repealed, suspended or
waived. In case of any inconsistencies between the provisions of any of the Safeguard
Instruments and the provisions of this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall
prevail.

The Borrower shall ensure that for each activity under the Project for which the ESMF
provides for the preparation of an ESMP: (a) proceed to have such ESMP: (1) prepared and
disclosed in accordance with the ESMF; (ii) consulted upon adequately with people
affected by the Project as per the ESMF, and submitted to the Bank for review and
approval; and (iii) thereafter adopted, prior to implementation of the activity; and (b) take
such measures as shall be necessary or appropriate to ensure compliance with the
requirements of such ESMP in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.

For each activity under the Project for which the IPPF provides for the preparation of an
IPP, the Borrower shall: (a) prior to the carrying out of any said activity, prepare and/or
cause to be prepared and furnish to the Bank, an IPP, in accordance with the IPPF and
satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) thereafter, adopt and implement said Indigenous Peoples’
Plan in accordance with its terms and in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.

The Borrower shall ensure that: (a) all consultancies related to technical assistance, design
and capacity building under the Project, the application of whose results could have
environmental, social and health and safety implications, shall only be undertaken pursuant
to terms of reference reviewed and found satisfactory by the Bank; and (b) such terms of
reference shall require the technical assistance, design and capacity building activities to
take into account the requirements of the applicable Bank Safeguards Policies and EHS
Guidelines.

Without limitation upon its other reporting obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower
shall:

(a) take all measures necessary on its part to regularly collect, compile, and submit to
the Bank on a biannual basis, and promptly in a separate report whenever the
circumstances warrant, reports on the status of compliance with the Safeguards
Instruments, all such reports in form and substance acceptable to the Bank, setting
out, inter alia: (i) the status of implementation of the Safeguards Instruments; (11)
conditions, if any, which interfere or threaten to interfere with the implementation
of the Safeguards Instruments; and (iii) corrective and preventive measures taken
or required to be taken to address such conditions;

(b) promptly furnish to the Bank a copy of each progress report prepared and
submitted by any entity (including any engineer) supervising the Project’s civil
works, the Project’s contractors and/or subcontractors; and
-9-

(c) promptly notify the Bank of any incident or accident related to or having an impact
on the Project which has, or is likely to have, a significant adverse effect on the
environment, the affected communities and the public or workers.

9. The Borrower shall maintain, throughout Project implementation, and publicize the
availability of a grievance mechanism, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, to
hear and determine fairly and in good faith all complaints raised in relation to the Project
and take all measures necessary to implement the determinations made by such mechanism
in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.

Section II. Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank each Project Report not later than sixty (60) days
after the end of each calendar semester, covering the calendar semester.

Section III. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A, General.

Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and in
accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the Borrower may
withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to: (a) finance Eligible Expenditures; and (b) pay: (i)
the Front-end Fee; and (ii) each Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar premium; in the
amount allocated and, if applicable, up to the percentage set forth against each Category of
the following table:

        
  
   
   
      
   
       
        
 

Amount of the Loan
Allocated
expressed in USD

55,732,500 100%
28,246,000 100%

Category Percentage of Expenditures to be

financed

   
  
 

    

  
   
    

   
 

  
 
  

   

   
   

 
 

(3) Capitation Payments 15,000,000 100%

under Part 2 of the Project

(4) Non-consulting services, 6,770,000 100%

consulting services under

Part 1 of the Project

consulting services and

Operating Costs under Part 3
4,000,000 100%

(7) Front-end Fee 287,500 Amount payable pursuant to Section

with Section 2.07 (b) of the General
Conditions

(8) Interest Rate Cap or Fe

Interest Rate Collar premium c) of the General Conditions

(5) Non-consulting services, 4,964,000 100%
of the Project ae
2.03 of this Agreement in accordance
Amount due pursuant to Section 4.05
|TOTALAMOUNT | 115,000,000, |
-10-

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A above, no withdrawal shall be made for payments
made prior to the Signature Date.

The Closing Date is December 31, 2024.
af ¥-

SCHEDULE 3
Commitment-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage of the
total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date (“Installment Share”).

    

Principal Payment Date
On each April 15 and October 15
Beginning October 15, 2027
through April 15, 2050 2.13%

On October 15, 2050 2.02%

   

Installment Share

   
 
      
    
-12-

APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

l.

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and Corruption
in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006
and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.

“Assigned Population” means the number of population assigned to each FHCC as per the
Borrower’s Resolution No. 175, dated April 7, 2016, as it may be amended from time to
time.

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section III.A of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.

“Capitation Payment” means financial resources periodically transferred by MSPBS to
LHCs in an amount per person of the Assigned Population calculated pursuant to a formula
set forth in the Operational Manual, and paid in accordance with the to cover a share of
the incremental cost of providing Selected ICS to the Assigned Population (as this amount
may be revised from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank).

“Department” means a Borrower’s political subdivision as referred to in the Borrower’s
Constitution.

“EHS Guidelines” means the World Bank Group Environmental, Health and Safety
Guidelines published on www.ifc.org/ehsguidelines, as said guidelines are updated from
time to time.

“Environmental and Social Management Framework” or “ESMF” means the Marco de
Gestion Ambiental y Social prepared and adopted by the MSPBS, satisfactory to the Bank,
dated March 2019, disclosed in-country, and the Bank’s website on March 20, 2019, setting
out the principles, rules, guidelines and procedures to screen and assess the potential
adverse environmental and social risks and impacts (including health and safety issues) of
Project activities adopt measures to avoid, reduce, mitigate or offset environmental and
social adverse risks and impacts, procedural, budget and institutional arrangements and
actions needed to implement these measures, and information on the agency or agencies
responsible for addressing the Projects’ risks and impacts; as well as for the preparation of
Environmental and Social Management Plans, as such framework may be amended by the
MSPBS from time to time, with the prior written agreement of the Bank.

“Environmental and Social Management Plan” or “ESMP” means the plan to be prepared
by the Borrower, satisfactory to the Bank, and thereafter disclosed on the Bank’s website,
which details (a) the measures to be taken during the implementation and operation of the
Project to avoid, minimize, mitigate or offset adverse environmental and social impacts
(including health and safety issues), or to reduce them to acceptable levels; and (b) the
actions needed to implement these measures, as said instrument may be amended from time
to time with the Bank’s prior written agreement.
10.

11.

ba

14.

15.

4.

“FHCCs” means Unidades de Salud de la Familia, the Borrower’s Family Health Care
Centers.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project Financing”, dated December
14, 2018.

“Indigenous Peoples Plan” or “IPP” means the plan to be adopted by the Borrower,
satisfactory to the Bank, and thereafter disclosed on the Bank’s website, which shall
include the principles, procedures, organizational arrangements and budget to implement
indigenous peoples related activities under the Project, or under parts of the Project, as said
indigenous peoples plan may be revised from time to time with the prior written agreement
of the Bank.

“Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework” or “IPPF” means the Marco de Planificacion
para Pueblos Indigenas prepared and adopted by the MSPBS, satisfactory to the Bank,
and disclosed on the Bank’s website on March 7, 2019, which sets out the principles,
organizational arrangements (including consultation, budget and disclosure), and design
criteria to be applied to Project activities which affect indigenous peoples, including the
preparation of indigenous peoples plans, as such framework may be amended from time to
time with the prior written agreement of the Bank.

“Law No. 1032” means the Borrower’s Law No. 1032, dated December 30, 1996, and
published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette of December 30, 1996, which creates the
Borrower’s national health system.

“LHCs” means Consejos Locales de Salud, the Borrower’s Local Health Councils.

“MSPBS” means Ministerio de Salud Publica y Bienestar Social, the Borrower’s Ministry
of Public Health and Social Welfare, or any successor ministry thereto in charge of public
health and social welfare.

“National System of Public Investment” or “SNIP” means Sistema Nacional de Inversion
Publica, operated by the Borrower’s Direccion del Sistema de Inversion Publica under the
Borrower’s Ministry of Finance, and operating pursuant to the Borrower’s Law 4394/2011,
and Decrees 8312/2012, 3944/2015, 6495/2016.

“Operating Costs” means the reasonable cost of incremental recurrent expenditures of
MSPBS related to Project implementation such as, inter alia, consumable items, banking
fees (excluding any taxes levied for financial transactions), utilities and supplies and
excluding salaries of Borrower’s civil service.

“Operational Manual” means the document adopted by the Borrower in accordance with
the provisions of Section 5.01(b) of this Agreement, and referred to in Section I.B.1 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement containing guidelines and procedures, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank, and used for the purpose of implementing the Project, including
in the areas of monitoring and evaluation, coordination, social and environmental
safeguards, and other provisions related to the institutional organization, as such guidelines
and procedures may be amended from time to time with the prior written agreement of the
Bank, and such term includes any schedule to the Operational Manual.
19.

20.

£1.

dikes

a

24.

25.

26.

el

28.

29.

-14-

“Participation Framework Agreement” or “PFA” means any of the agreements between
MSPBS and an LHC referred to in Section I.A.2(b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Participating LHC” means an LHC receiving Capitation Payments under the Project who
is a party to a Participation Framework Agreement.

“Public Primary Health Care Micro-Networks” or “PPHCMNs” means Microredes de
Salud, the Borrower’s public primary health care micro-networks composed of LHCs,
district hospitals and FHCCs that operate under the conceptual framework of a primary
health care strategy.

“Prioritized Departments” means any of the following Borrower’s Departments: Central,
Paraguari, Cordillera and Amambay, and any other Department, in addition or substitution
therefor, selected by the Borrower in form and in a manner satisfactory to the Bank to
participate under Part 1(a)(i) of the Project.

“Procurement Regulations” means, for purposes of paragraph 85 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the “World Bank Procurement Regulations for IPF Borrowers”, dated
July 2016, revised November 2017 and August 2018.

“Results Areas” means the matrix of results areas and indicator targets agreed between the
Borrower and the Bank, as set forth in the respective Results Management Agreement and
determined pursuant to the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual.

“Results Management Agreement” means any of the agreements between MSPBS and an
LHC referred to in Section I.A.2(c)(1) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Safeguards Instruments” means collectively, the ESMF and the Indigenous Peoples
Planning Framework, and “Safeguard Instrument” means any of such Safeguards
Instruments.

“Safeguards Policies” means, the Operational Policies (Ops) and Bank Procedures (BPs)
of the Bank, namely OP/BP 4.01 (Environmental Assessment), OP/BP 4.04 (Natural
Habitats), OP/BP 4.09 (Pest Management), OP/BP 4.10 (Indigenous Peoples), OP/BP 4.11
(Physical Cultural Resources), OP/BP 4.12 (Involuntary Resettlement), OP/BP 4.36
(Forests), and OP/BP 4.37 (Safety of Dams); they can be found at

https://policies.worldbank.org.

“Selected ICS” means integrated care-sets for primary health care services prioritized
pursuant the criteria set out in the Operational Manual to cover inter alia: (1) maternal and
child care and prevalent diseases; (11) highly prevalent non-communicable diseases
(hypertension and diabetes) and cancers prevalent among women (cervical-uterine and
breast cancer); (ili) infectious diseases (tuberculosis, sexually transmitted diseases); and
(iv) other pathologies.

“Signature Date” means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the Bank
signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to “the date of the Loan
Agreement” in the General Conditions.
30.

+i

“Training” means reasonable expenditures (other than those for consulting services and
non-consulting services) for: (a) travel, room and board, and per diem expenditures
incurred by trainers and trainees in connection with their training; (b) course fees; (c)
workshops, (d) training facility rentals; and (e) training material preparation, acquisition,
reproduction and distribution expenses.
