Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

 

 

LOAN NUMBER 8951-EG

Loan Agreement

(Catalyzing Entrepreneurship for Job Creation Project)
between
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT
OF

LOAN NUMBER 8951-EG
LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between the ARAB REPUBLIC

EGYPT (“Borrower”) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK _ FOR

RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”). The Borrower and the Bank
hereby agree as follows:

1.01.

1.02.

2.01.

2.02.

DATS.

2.04.

2.05.

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to
and form part of this Agreement.

Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IT — LOAN

The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of two hundred million
United States Dollars (USD 200,000,000), as such amount may be converted
from time to time through a Currency Conversion (“Loan”), to assist in financing
the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“‘Project’’).

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower’s representative for
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this
Section is the Micro Small and Medium Enterprises Development Agency.

The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.

The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.

The interest payable by the Borrower on the principle amount of the Loan
withdrawn and the amount outstanding from time to time for each Interest Period
shall be at a rate equal to the Reference Rate (as defined in the Appendix to the
General Conditions) for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided,
that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principle amount of the Loan,
the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such
amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article
IV of the General Conditions.
2.06

2.07.

2.08.

2.09.

3.01.

4.01.

4.02.

5.01.

. 2.

The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Variable Spread or such rate as
may apply following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General
Conditions.

The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3
to this Agreement.

The Borrower represents that it has designated its Ministry of Finance for the
purpose of handling, on behalf of the Borrower, debt service payments with
respect to the Loan.

ARTICLE Ill — PROJECT

The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Micro Small
and Medium Enterprises Development Agency (“MSMEDA”) (“Project
Implementing Entity”) in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions, Schedule 2 to this Agreement and the Project Agreement.

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK

The Events of Suspension additional to those set out in the General Conditions
consists of the following:

(a) MSMEDA’s Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of
MSMEDA to perform any of its obligations under the Project
Agreement.

(b) MSMEDA has failed to comply with any of its obligations under the
Subsidiary Agreement or the Project Agreement.

The Events of Acceleration additional to those set out in the General Conditions
consists of the following, namely, that any of the events specified in paragraphs
(a) and (b) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement has occurred and is continuing for a
period of 60 days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the
Borrower.

ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS

Subject to the other provisions of this Article and Section 9.01 of the General
Conditions, this Agreement shall become effective once the Bank has received
evidence that all necessary constitutional procedures have been taken by the
Borrower.
5.02

5.03.

5.04.

6.01.

6.02.

6.03.

~% -

The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and
MSMEDA.

The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely that the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower
and MSMEDA and is legally binding upon the Borrower and MSMEDA in
accordance with its terms.

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred eighty (180) days after the
Signature Date or such date as the Bank may establish in accordance with the
provisions of Section 9.04 of the General Conditions.

ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

The Borrower’s Representative is its minister responsible for investment and
international cooperation.

For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:

(a) the Borrower’s address is:
Ministry of Investment and International Cooperation
8 Adly Street
Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt; and

(b) the Borrower’s Electronic Address is:

Facsimile:

(202) 2391-2815
(202) 2391-5167

For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) the Bank’s address is:

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America; and
siti

(b) the Bank’s Electronic Address is:

  
 

Telex Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
AGREED as of the Signature Date.
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
By:
Authorized Representative
Name: kali Of A yuk
Ed | crak
=
AQ , :
—
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR

RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By:

Authorized Representative
Name: ‘ | Own WEA

Title: Cour y Ly reckok
Date: on yy 204

 
_5-

SCHEDULE 1
Project Description

The objective of the Project is to foster job creation and improve other economic
opportunities for targeted beneficiaries.

The Project consists of the following parts:

Part 1. Financial Support to MSMEs

Provision of Financial Intermediary Loans (“FI Loans”) to Participating
Financial Intermediaries (“PFIs”) for the purpose of on-lending as Sub-loans to Eligible
Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (“Eligible MSMEs”) to carry out job creating Sub-
projects in the territory of the Borrower.

Part 2. Risk Capital for Innovative Startups and High Growth SMEs

Provision of Equity and Quasi Equity Investments to Eligible Risk Capital
Intermediaries that target innovative startups and high growth SMEs (“Eligible RCIs”) in
the territory of the Borrower; and associated Management Costs.

Part 3. Business and Capacity Development

A. (i) Provision of Training, mentoring, coaching and business development
services to Eligible MSMEs, PFIs and Eligible RCIs for Parts 1 and 2 of the
Project; (ii) provision of technical assistance to enhance MSMEDA’s usage of
digital solutions, including for a digital matching platform aimed at connecting
entrepreneurs with potential investors; and (iii) developing a robust monitoring
framework, including for job creation under the Project.

B. Supporting Project management activities, monitoring and evaluation and
strengthening the capacity of MSMEDA, to coordinate and execute project
activities, through the provision of technical assistance, Training, preparation of
relevant reports, Operating Costs and required goods for the purpose.
-6-

SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Section I. Implementation Arrangements

Institutional Arrangements

The Borrower shall cause MSMEDA to be responsible for the implementation of
the Project and shall take all actions, including the provision of funding,
personnel and other resources necessary, to enable MSMEDA to perform its
functions.

To facilitate the day-to-day implementation of Project activities, the Borrower
shall cause MSMEDA to maintain at all times during the implementation of the
Project, a Project Implementation Unit (“PIU”) to run the day-to-day
management of the Project, in form and with terms of reference, functions,
composition, mandate, staffing, and adequate resources satisfactory to the Bank,
and as further described in the Project Operational Manual.

In order to carry out Part 2 of the Project, the Borrower shall cause MSMEDA to
establish and maintain throughout the life of the Project, an independent
Investment Committee, with composition, mandate and terms of reference,
satisfactory to the Bank and as further detailed in the Project Operational
Manual.

The Borrower shall, through MSMEDA, ensure that the Investment Committee is
responsible for monitoring the implementation of Part 2 of the Project, including,
inter alia: (a) selecting and monitoring the Equity and Quasi Equity Investments
and the Eligible RCIs; (b) adopting investment policies and guidelines applicable
to Part 2 of the Project; (c) approving MSMEDA’s exits from Eligible RCIs in
accordance with the respective Shareholder Agreement and as further detailed in
the Project Operational Manual.

Project Operational Manual

The Borrower shall, through MSMEDA, prepare and adopt, no later than (1) one
month after the Effective Date, a Project Operational Manual in form and
substance satisfactory to the Bank. Said Manual shall include provisions on the
following matters: (a) arrangements on financial management, setting forth the
detailed policies and procedures for financial management under the Project;
(b) procurement management procedures; (c) institutional administration,
coordination, and day-to-day execution of Project activities, including the
respective roles and responsibilities of MSMEDA, Investment Committee and
any other entity involved in Project implementation; (d) monitoring and
a

evaluation; (e) reporting; (f) information and communication of Project activities;
(g) guidelines for assessing potential environmental and social impacts of the
Project and designing appropriate mitigation, management, and monitoring
measures in respect of such impacts; (h) all arrangements for the implementation
of Part 1, Part 2 and Part 3 of the Project, including FI loans, Sub-loans, Sub-
projects, Equity and Quasi Equity Investments criteria and pricing; and (i) such
other technical and organizational arrangements and procedures as shall be
required for the Project.

The Borrower shall, through MSMEDA, afford the Bank a reasonable
opportunity to exchange views on said Project operational manual, and thereafter,
adopt such Project Operational manual as shall have been approved by the Bank
(“Project Operational Manual” or “POM”’).

The Borrower shall, through MSMEDA, carry out the Project in accordance with
the POM. To this end, the POM shall not be amended, abrogated or waived,
without the prior written approval of the Bank.

In case of any conflict between the provisions of the POM and the provisions of
this Agreement or the Project Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement or the
Project Agreement shall prevail.

Subsidiary Loan Agreement

To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall on-lend the
proceeds of the Loan under the Project from time to time to MSMEDA
(“Subsidiary Loan”) under a subsidiary loan agreement between the Borrower
and MSMEDA (“Subsidiary Loan Agreement”), with terms and conditions
approved by the Bank, which shall include inter alia the following:
(a) repayment currency of the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan;
(b) interest rate charged on such principal amount withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time all in accordance with Article II of this Agreement and Article
III of the General Conditions; (c) foreign exchange risk to be borne by
MSMEDA,; and (d) the obligation of MSMEDA to carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency, in conformity with appropriate social and
environmental, administrative, financial and technical practices and in
accordance with the obligations set forth in this Agreement and the General
Conditions.

Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend,
abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any of its provisions.
_8-

Financial Intermediary Agreements

For purposes of carrying out Part 1 of the Project, the Borrower shall cause
MSMEDA to select PFIs in accordance with the eligibility criteria set forth in the
POM and including a minimum requirement that each PFI: (a) is in full
compliance with the Borrower’s Central Bank of Egypt and the FRA’s
regulations; and (b) has satisfactory staff capacity and managerial autonomy to
carry out its role in the Project.

The Borrower shall cause MSMEDA to enter into a Financial Intermediary
Agreement (“FI Agreement”) with each PFI under the terms and conditions set
forth in the POM and eligibility criteria and procedures acceptable to the Bank,
and to monitor compliance by each PFI with the terms and conditions of each FI
Agreement.

The Borrower shall, through MSMEDA, ensure that: (a) each FI Loan shall be
used only for the purpose of on-lending Sub-loans to Eligible MSMEs; and
(b) Each Participating Financial Intermediary shall not receive an amount that
exceeds 30% of loans proceeds allocated to Category 1 under the Withdrawal
Table of this Agreement.

The Borrower shall, through MSMEDA, ensure that each FI Agreement includes
the following:

(a) Each FI Loan shall be denominated and repayable under terms and
conditions set forth in the POM and satisfactory to the Bank.

(b) MSMEDA shall obtain rights adequate to protect its interests and those
of the Bank and the Borrower, including the right to:

(i) suspend or terminate the right of the any Participating Financial
Intermediary to use the proceeds of the FI Loan, or declare to be
immediately due and payable or obtain a refund of all or any part
of the amount of the FI Loan then withdrawn, upon the
Participating Financial Intermediary failure to perform any of its
obligations under the FI Agreement; and

(11) require each Participating Financial Intermediary to:

(A) carry out its obligations under FI Loans with due
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound
technical, economic, financial, managerial,
environmental and social standards (including Safeguard
Instruments) and practices, all satisfactory to the Bank,
including in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-
(B)

(C)

(D)

(E)

_9-

Corruption Guidelines and the Procurement Regulations
applicable to the Project;

maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate in accordance with indicators
acceptable to the Bank, the progress of the Sub-projects
and the achievement of their objectives;

maintain a financial management system and prepare
financial statements, or monthly reports, as required by
the POM. Such statement or reports shall be audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in
accordance with consistently applied auditing standards
acceptable to the Bank, and promptly furnish the
statements as so audited to the Borrower, the Bank and
MSMEDA;

enable the Borrower, the Bank and MSMEDA to inspect
the Sub-projects, their operations and any relevant
records and documents; and

prepare and furnish to the Borrower, the Bank and
MSMEDA all such information as the Borrower or the
Bank or MSMEDA shall reasonably request relating to
the foregoing.

The Borrower shall ensure that MSMEDA fulfills its obligations and exercise its
rights under each FI Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower, the Bank and MSMEDA and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.

Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that
MSMEDA does not, assign, amend, abrogate or waive any FI Agreement or any

of its provisions.

Sub-project Selection

The Borrower shall cause MSMEDA to ensure that each PFI:

(a) Selects Eligible MSMEs which:

(i) comply with the eligibility criteria set forth in the Project
Operational Manual, including that the Eligible MSME, as
applicable, shall have an ownership, management and financial
structure consistent with the laws and regulations of the
Borrower; and
(b)

(il)

-10-

are not in litigation or on a list of companies declared ineligible
by the Bank to participate in Bank-financed projects.

Screens and selects Sub-projects in accordance with the selection and
eligibility criteria set forth in the POM and the Safeguard Instruments.
The following Sub-projects shall not be eligible for financing, as further
set forth in the Project Operational Manual:

(i)

(ii)

(iii)

(iv)

(v)

(vi)

(vii)

any Sub-projects involving non-eligible expenditures (as such
term is defined in the Project Operational Manual);

any Sub-projects affecting international waterways, natural
habitats, disputed areas or indigenous peoples;

any Sub-projects involving the conversion or degradation of
forest areas;

any Sub-projects involving the involuntary taking of land or
involuntary resettlement resulting in relocation or loss of shelter,
loss of assets or access to assets, loss of income sources or
means of livelihood, or involving the involuntary restriction of
access to legally designated parks and protected areas;

any Sub-projects involving the construction or rehabilitation of
dams;

any Sub-projects that would be classified as ‘Category A’ in
accordance with the Bank’s policies and procedures; and

any Sub-projects that finance Excluded Expenditures, as set forth
in this Agreement.

Sub-Loan Agreements

For the purposes of carrying out Sub-projects under Part 1 of the Project, the
Borrower shall cause MSMEDA to ensure that each PFI enters into a Sub-loan
Agreement with each Eligible MSME on terms and conditions and eligibility
criteria and procedures acceptable to the Bank and set forth in the Project
Operational Manual.

Equity and Quasi Equity Investments

To facilitate carrying out Part 2 of the Project, the Borrower shall ensure that:
-ll-

MSMEDA selects Eligible RCIs in accordance with the eligibility criteria and
terms set forth in the Project Operational Manual. Such eligibility criteria shall
include that each Eligible RCI must:

(a)

(b)
(c)

(d)

(e)

have physical operational presence in Egypt or invest in companies
physically located in Egypt;

not have an adverse or disclaimer audit opinion in the last three years;

not be in litigation or on a list of companies declared ineligible by the
Bank to participate in Bank-financed projects;

not have any key personnel with a criminal record, who are on any list of
individuals declared ineligible by the Bank to be involved in Bank-
financed projects by the Borrower, or who have been suspended or
banned by the Borrower from activities financed by the Borrower; and

have sufficient fund capital such that the amount provided by MSMEDA
constitutes no more than forty-nine percent (49%) of its total capital.

MSMEDA enters into a Shareholder Agreement to provide Equity and Quasi
Equity Investments with each Eligible RCI, in accordance with the terms and
conditions set forth in the Project Operational Manual. Each Shareholder
Agreement shall require each Eligible RCI to:

(a)

(b)

(c)

carry out its operations with due diligence and efficiency and in
accordance with sound technical, economic, financial, managerial,
environmental and social standards (including Safeguard Instruments)
and practices, all satisfactory to the Bank, including in accordance with
the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to the
Project;

continue to provide financing for eligible startups and high growth SMEs
in accordance with criteria set out in the POM;

ensure that such financing to startups and high growth SMEs does not
include:

(i) non-eligible expenditures (as such term is defined in the Project
Operational Manual);
(ii) activities affecting international waterways, natural habitats,

disputed areas or indigenous peoples;

(iii) activities involving the conversion or degradation of forest areas;
(d)

(e)

(f)

(g)

(h)

-12-

(iv) activities involving the involuntary taking of land or involuntary
resettlement resulting in relocation or loss of shelter, loss of
assets or access to assets, loss of income sources or means of
livelihood, or involving the involuntary restriction of access to
legally designated parks and protected areas;

(v) activities involving the construction or rehabilitation of dams;

(vi) activities that would be classified as ‘Category A’ in accordance
with the Bank’s policies and procedures; and

(vii) | Excluded Expenditures as set forth in this Agreement;

provide, promptly as needed, the resources required for the purpose of
the investments;

maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and
evaluate its operations, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the
Bank;

maintain a financial management system and prepare financial
statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards
acceptable to the Bank, both in a manner adequate to reflect its
operations, resources and expenditures;

have such financial statements audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with consistently applied auditing
standards acceptable to the Bank, and promptly furnish the statements as
so audited to MSMEDA and, if so requested, the Bank;

enable MSMEDA and the Bank to inspect the Eligible RCI’s operations
and any relevant records and documents; and

prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the Bank all such information as
the Borrower or the Bank shall reasonably request relating to the
foregoing.

The Borrower shall cause MSMEDA to exercise the rights under each
Shareholder Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of MSMEDA,
the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.

The Borrower shall cause MSMEDA to not assign, amend, terminate, abrogate,
waive or fail to enforce any Shareholder Agreement or any of its provisions,
except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree.
. 1%.

Safeguards

The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Safeguard Instruments.

The Borrower shall, through MSMEDA, ensure that if any activity included in
Project would, pursuant to the ESMF, require the adoption of an ESMP or ESIA:

(a) (1) prepare such ESMP or ESIA and furnish it to the Bank for review and
approval in accordance with the ESMF; (ii) thereafter disclose such
ESMP or ESIA as required by the ESMF and approved by the Bank prior
to implementation of the activity in question; (iii) thereafter incorporate
said ESMP or ESIA in the bidding documents; (iv) thereafter implement
the ESMP or ESIA during the Project implementation; and
(v) incorporate said ESMP or ESIA in the bidding documents; and

(b) thereafter take such measures as shall be necessary or appropriate to
ensure compliance with the requirements of such ESMP or ESIA.

The Borrower shall cause MSMEDA to monitor on a continuing basis the
implementation of the Safeguard Instruments and ensure that the Project is
executed in accordance with such Safeguard Instruments, and, upon the
occurrence of any event or condition likely to interrupt or interfere with the
smooth implementation of the Safeguard Instruments, the Borrower shall cause
MSMEDA to act promptly to deal with or address such event or condition, and
inform the Borrower and the Bank accordingly.

For the purposes of any sub-financing or other activity under the Project, and
prior to implementation thereof, the Borrower shall, through MSMEDA, ensure
that any plan, action plan, fact sheet or other instrument required in terms of any
one or more of the Safeguard Instruments, shall have been duly:

(a) prepared in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, and, except as
otherwise agreed with the Bank, submitted to the Bank for review and
approval, and

(b) thereafter adopted and publicly disclosed.

The Borrower shall cause MSMEDA to take all measures necessary on its part to

regularly collect, compile, and submit to the Bank, on an annual basis, reports on

the status of compliance with the Safeguard Instruments, giving details of:

(a) measures taken in furtherance of such Safeguard Instruments;

(b) any event or condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
smooth implementation of such Safeguard Instruments; and
10.

11.

-14-

(c) remedial measures taken or required to be taken to address such event or
condition.

The Borrower shall, through MSMEDA, ensure that all technical assistance
under the Project, shall only be undertaken pursuant to terms of reference
reviewed and found satisfactory by the Bank, such terms of reference to ensure
that the technical assistance takes into account, and calls for application of the
Bank’s environmental and social safeguards policies and the Borrower’s own
laws relating to the environment and social aspects.

The Borrower shall, through MSMEDA, ensure that employees, agents, service
providers, contractors and subcontractors carry out the Project in conformity with
acceptable environmental and social standards, practices and codes of conduct
(which shall, inter alia, contain measures that prohibit, endeavour to prevent and
address Project-related gender-based violence and sexual exploitation and abuse)
and the provisions of the Borrower’s environmental and social laws.

The Borrower shall ensure that relevant environmental and social mitigation
measures and clauses are included in the tender documents in accordance with
the Safeguard Instruments, in addition to ensuring that contractors’ ESMPs are
approved by the Bank prior to commencement of works subject to environmental
and social assessment.

The Borrower shall cause MSMEDA to, throughout Project implementation,
maintain and publicize the availability of a Project-level grievance and feedback
and redress mechanism, in a form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, to hear
and determine fairly and in good faith all complaints and feedback raised in
relation to the Project, and take all measures necessary to implement the
determinations made by said grievance feedback and redress mechanism in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank.

The Borrower shall ensure that the Safeguard Instruments are not amended,
abrogated, repealed, suspended, waived, or otherwise fail to enforce, or permit to
be amended, abrogated, repealed, suspended or waived any of the Safeguard
Instruments or any provision thereof without the prior written approval of the
Bank.

In case of any inconsistency between this Agreement and any of the Safeguard
Instruments, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.

Section II. Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

The Borrower shall, through MSMEDA, furnish to the Bank each Project Report
not later than one month after the end of each calendar semester, covering the
calendar semester.
-15-

Section III. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. General

Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions
and in accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the
Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to: (a) finance Eligible
Expenditures; and (b) pay: (i) the Front-end Fee; and (ii) each Interest Rate Cap
or Interest Rate Collar premium; in the amount allocated and, if applicable, up to
the percentage set forth against each Category of the following table:

Percentage of
Amount of the Loan Expenditures to be

Allocated financed
Category (expressed in USD) (inclusive of Taxes)

(1) FI Loans under Part 1 146,000,000 100%
of the Project.

(2) Equity and Quasi 50,000,000 100%
Equity Investments and
Management Costs
under Part 2 of the
Project.

(3) Goods, works, non- 3,500,000 100%
consulting services,
consulting services,
Operating Costs and
Training for Part 3 of
the Project.

(4) Front-end Fee 500,000 Amount payable pursuant
to Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07(b) of the
General Conditions

(4) Interest Rate Cap or Amount due pursuant to
Interest Rate Collar Section 4.05(c) of the
premium General Conditions

TOTAL AMOUNT 200,000,000 Le

 
- 16 -

B. Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A above, no withdrawal shall be made:

(a) except that withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed
$7,500,000 may be made for payments made up to 12 months prior to the
Signature Date for Eligible Expenditures; or

(b) under Category (2), until the Investment Committee has been
established, with composition and mandate, in accordance with Section
1.A.3 to Schedule 2 of this Agreement, and as further detailed in the
POM.

2. The Closing Date is June 30, 2025.

 
 

~ (F .

SCHEDULE 3

Level Principal Repayments

Principal Payment Date Installment Share

On each May 15 and November 15

Beginning May 15, 2024 through May 15,
2053

On November 15, 2053 1.47%

   
   
 

    
 

 
 
 
  

1.67%

 

 
- 18 -

APPENDIX
Definitions

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the
Appendix to the General Conditions, the “Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011 and as
of July 1, 2016.

“Eligible MSMEs” means for the purpose of Part 1 of the Project, the selected
micro, small and medium enterprises as defined in the Borrower’s laws and
regulations, established and operating within the territory of the Borrower, which
meet the eligibility criteria outlined in Section IE of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement as further set forth in the Project Operational Manual.

“Eligible RCIs” means selected risk capital intermediaries, including
accelerators, incubators and business development support entities as defined in
the Borrower’s laws and regulations, established and operating within the
territory of the Borrower, which meet the eligibility criteria outlined in the
Project Operational Manual.

“Environmental and Social Management Framework” or “ESMF” means the
Environmental and Social Management Framework, issued by or on behalf of the
Borrower and thereafter publicly disclosed on November 20, 2018, which
includes MSMEDA’s existing Environmental and Social Management System
and which provides for an analysis of potential impacts on the human and
biophysical environment associated with the Project, an assessment of the risks
and likelihood of potential adverse social and environmental impacts, and a
checklist of plans and measures designed to prevent, manage or mitigate such
potential adverse impacts.

“Equity and Quasi Equity Investments” means a capital investment made by
MSMEDA out of the proceeds of the Loan to an Eligible RCI under Part 2 of the
Project.

‘“ESMP” means the environmental and social management plan, to be prepared
by or on behalf of the Borrower, further to the ESMF, for any specific activities
under the Project.

“Excluded Expenditures” means alcoholic beverages, tobacco, un-manufactured,
tobacco refuse, tobacco, manufactured (whether or not containing tobacco
substitutes), radioactive and associated materials, pearls, precious and
semiprecious stones, unworked or worked, nuclear reactors, and parts thereof;
fuel elements (cartridges), nonirradiated, for nuclear reactors, tobacco processing
10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

-19-

machinery, jewelry of gold, silver or platinum group metals (except watches and
watchcases) and goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ wares (including set gems), gold,
non-monetary (excluding gold ores and concentrates).

“FI Agreement” for purposes of Part 1 of the Project, it means an agreement
entered into between MSMEDA and a Participating Financial Intermediary on
terms and conditions set forth in Section I.D of Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
Section ID of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, and the Project
Operational Manual, for the purposes of financing an FI Loan.

“FRA” means Financial Regulatory Authority.

“FI Loan” means a loan made, in accordance with criteria set forth in the Project
Operational Manual, by MSMEDA to a Participating Financial Intermediary out
of the proceeds of the Loan for the purpose of on-lending as Sub-loans to Eligible
MSMEs.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project
Financing”, dated December 14, 2018.

“Investment Committee” means the investment committee referred to in Section
1.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, responsible for selection, review and
approval of Equity and Quasi Equity Investments under Part 2 of the Project.

“Management Costs” means costs incurred by Eligible RCIs associated with
standard fund operational costs including deal-sourcing, due diligence,
investment management, marketing, and networking.

“Operating Costs” means the reasonable incremental expenses incurred on
account of Project implementation by the Borrower or MSMEDA, management
and monitoring, including office supplies, the cost of publication of procurement
notices, vehicle operation, office and equipment maintenance and repair,
communication, translation and interpretation, travel and supervision costs, and
other miscellaneous costs directly associated with Project, as determined by the
Bank but excluding salaries of civil servants and employees of the Borrower or
MSMEDA.

“Participating Financial Intermediary” or “PFI” means selected non-bank
financial intermediaries, micro finance institutions, micro finance companies,
commercial banks, and factoring and leasing companies as defined in the
Borrower’s laws and regulations, established and operating within the territory of
the Borrower, which meet the eligibility criteria outlined in Section I.D of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as further set forth in the Project Operational
Manual.
16.

17.

18.

19.

20.

21.

22.

25.

- 20 -

“Procurement Regulations” means, for purposes of paragraph 85 of the Appendix
to the General Conditions, the “World Bank Procurement Regulations for IPF
Borrowers”, dated July 2016, revised November 2017 and August 2018.

“Project Implementing Entity” or “MSMEDA” means, the Micro Small and
Medium Enterprises Development Agency, established by virtue of Prime
Minister’s Decree N. 947 of 2017, as amended by Prime Minister’s Decree N.
2370 of 2018.

“Project Operational Manual” or “POM” means the operational manual to be
adopted by the Project Implementing Entity, and referred to in Section I.B. of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, describing and setting
forth procedures for implementation of the Project and _ institutional
arrangements, consistent with the provisions of this Agreement and the Project
Agreement and with applicable laws and regulations and including, among other
things, the fiduciary, technical and operational aspects and procedures for
implementation of the Project, including the financial management procedures
(budgeting, accounting and internal control, disbursement and flow of funds,
financial reporting, annual reports, internal and external audit arrangements
procedures and including the Project specific chart of accounts), procurement
procedures, monitoring and evaluation arrangements, other fiduciary and
administrative arrangements, the selection methods and eligibility criteria for
PFIs and Eligible RCIs and procedures, transaction, control, and clearance
processes and the implementation mechanisms and necessary terms for FI Loans,
Sub-loans and Sub-projects, and templates of FI Agreements, as the same may be
amended from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank.

“Safeguard Instruments” means the ESMF and any other safeguards instrument
derived therefrom or adopted pursuant thereto.

“Shareholder Agreement” means an agreement between MSMEDA and each
Eligible RCI pursuant to Section I.G.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
describing the rights, duties and responsibilities of each party, which shall
comply with the provisions of this Agreement, the Project Agreement and the
POM, and the format of which shall be set forth in the POM.

“Signature Date” means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the
Bank signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to “the
date of the Loan Agreement” in the General Conditions.

“SMEs” means small and medium enterprises.
“Sub-loan Agreement” means an agreement entered into between a Participating

Financial Intermediary and an Eligible MSME, in each case on the terms and
conditions set forth in Section I.F of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, Section I.F of
24.

23:

26.

Ads

a 98

the Schedule to the Project Agreement and the Project Operational Manual for
the purpose of financing a Sub-loan.

“Sub-loan” means a loan made or proposed to be made, pursuant to the
provisions of a Sub-loan Agreement and in accordance with the criteria and
procedures set forth in Section I.F of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and the
Project Operational Manual, by a Participating Financial Intermediary to an
Eligible MSME out of the proceeds of a FI Loan for the purpose of financing a
Sub-project.

“Sub-project” means economic activities carried out by an Eligible MSME to be
funded from a Sub-loan in accordance with conditions set forth in Section LE of
Schedule 2 of this Agreement and in the Project Operational Manual.

“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section LC of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make the
proceeds of the Loan available to MSMEDA.

“Training” means expenditures for the Project related to study tours, training
courses, seminars, workshops and other training activities not included under
goods or service providers’ contracts, including costs of training materials, space
and equipment rental, travel and per diem costs of trainees and trainers.
