Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

 

 

SCF LOAN NUMBER TF0A8336

Strategic Climate Fund
Loan Agreement

(Private Sector-led Mini-grid Energy Access Project)
Between
NEPAL

and

INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION

acting as an implementing entity of the Scaling-up Renewable Energy Program under the
Strategic Climate Fund

Dated Apri 22% ,2019

 

 
SCF LOAN NUMBER TF0A8336
STRATEGIC CLIMATE FUND LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT dated /& eri 2% —_, 2019, entered into between: NEPAL
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“World
Bank”), acting not in its individual capacity but solely in its capacity as an implementing
entity of the Scaling-up Renewable Energy Program (“SREP”) under the Strategic Climate
Fund (“SCF”).

WHEREAS (A) by agreement of even date herewith, the World Bank, acting as an
implementing entity of the Scaling-up Renewable Energy Project under the Strategic
Climate Fund has agreed to extend to the Borrower a grant in the amount of five million
six hundred ten thousand United States Dollars ($5,610,000) (“Grant”) to assist in
financing the Project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“SCF Grant Agreement”).

(B) the Borrower has requested, the World Bank to provide additional
financial assistance towards the financing of the Project from the SCF, as further described
in Article II of this Agreement.

The Borrower and the World Bank hereby agree as follows:

Article I
Standard Conditions; Definitions

1.01. The Standard Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.

1.02. Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the Standard Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.

Article I
Loan

2.01. The World Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set
forth or referred to in this Agreement, the amount of two million United States
Dollars ($2,000,000) (“Loan”), to assist in financing Part 1 of the project described
in Schedule | to this Agreement (“Project”).
202i

2.03;

2.04.

2.05.

2.06.

2.07,

3.01,

3.02;

4.01.

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

The Loan is funded out of the resources made available to the World Bank as an
implementing entity of the SCF. In accordance with Section 3.02 of the Standard
Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement), the World Bank’s
payment obligations in connection with this Agreement are limited to the amount of
funds made available to it from the SCF trust fund, and the Borrower’s right to
withdraw the Loan proceeds is subject to the availability of such funds.

The Service Charge payable by the Borrower on the Withdrawn Loan Balance
shall be equal to one-tenths of one percent (1/10 of 1%) per annum.

The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the repayment
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

The Payment Currency is USD.

Article ITT
The Project

The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project
Implementing Entity in accordance with the provisions of Article II of the Standard
Conditions and the Project Agreement.

Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the World Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

Article [V
Additional Remedies

The Additional Event of Suspension consist of the following:

(a) the Alternative Energy Promotion Development Board (Formation) Order
2053 (1996) by the Ministry of Environment, Science and Technology of
the Borrower pursuant to which the Project Implementing Entity has been
established and is operating has been amended, suspended, abrogated,
 

 

 

 

 

 

4.02.

5.01.

5.02.

5.03.

(b)

(c)

repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of
the Project Implementing Entity to perform any of its obligations under
the Project Agreement;

the Project Implementing Entity has failed to perform obligations under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and

the actions of the Borrower have interfered with the Project Implementing
Entity’s performance under the Project Agreement.

The Additional Events of Acceleration consist of the following:

(a)

(b)

Any event specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of Section 4.01 of this
Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of sixty (60) days after
notice of the event has been given by the Association to the Borrower.

The event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement
occurs.

Article V
Effectiveness; Termination

The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:

(a)

(b)

The Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the
Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity.

The SCF Grant Agreement has been executed and all conditions precedent
to its effectiveness (other than the effectiveness of this Agreement) have
been fulfilled.

The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely that, the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the
Project Implementing Entity and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the
Project Implementing Entity in accordance with its terms.

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.

 
Article VI
Borrower’s Representative; Addresses

6.01. The Borrower’s Representative referred to in Section 10.02 of the Standard
Conditions is its Secretary, Ministry of Finance.

6.02. The Borrower’s Address referred to in Section 10.01 of the Standard Conditions
is:

Ministry of Finance
Government of Nepal

Singha Durbar

Kathmandu

Nepal

Facsimile: . E-mail:

(977-1) 4211-164 secretary@mof.gov.np

6.03. The World Bank’s Address referred to in Section 10.01 of the Standard Conditions
is:

International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America

Cable: Telex: Facsimile:

INDEVAS 248423 (MCI) or 1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 64145 (MCI)

 
 

AGREED at Kathmandu, Nepal, as of the day and year first above written.

NEPAL

By:

  

Authorized Representative

Name: Sh rick WiAA Ng pak
Title: el ee.

INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT

ASSOCIATION acting as an implementing entity of the
Scaling-up Renewable Energy Program under the
Strategic Climate Fund

wo
ee
Authorized Répresentative

Name: a dl

Title: Ac TK _ Couns ty Man ausy

 

By:

 
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description

The objective of the Project is to increase electricity generation capacity from

renewable energy mini-grids in selected areas by mobilizing ESCOs.

The Project consists of the following parts:

Part 1: Credit Facility to Support Renewable Energy Mini-grid Subprojects

Provisions of Sub-loans by the AEPC to PBs to be utilized as a line of credit for providing
the long-term financing to the ESCOs.

Part 2: Technical Assistance to the Mini-grid Sector, ESCOs and Partner Banks and

(a)

(b)

(c)

Project Management Support

Project Management Support.
Support of the PMT and enhancement of AEPC’s capacity as a credit wholesaler.
Training and Capacity Development.

Provision of capacity building and training on, among others: (i) strengthening of
coordination and oversight roles for the AEPC and MoEWRI; (ii) preparation and
modification of guidelines and policies to promote mini-grid sector; (iii) business
model development and optimization, technology selection, quality control and
management, operation and maintenance, tariff management, project financing for
ESCOs; (iv) credit due diligence, monitoring of loan performance and risk
assessment for PBs; and (iv) procurement, financial management, environmental
and social assessment and management of AEPC, PBs, ESCOs and industry
service providers supporting the Subprojects.

Preparation of Studies and Key Project Documents.

(i) Preparation of feasibility studies, technical design, environmental and social
assessments and bidding documents of Subprojects.

(ii) Support to prepare key documents for the Project, including but not limited
to, instruments and model agreements among AEPC, ESCOs and PBs.
 

(d)

(iii) Support to prepare technical standards and guidelines for micro hydropower
plant, solar, wind mini-grid and interconnection.

(iv) Support to strengthen organizational set-up of renewable energy agencies at
the federal and sub-national levels.

Support on Promotional Activities.

Provision of goods, technical assistance and training: (i) to support promoting the
off-grid solutions among various stakeholders; (ii) for the rural community
mobilization and networking events and programs; and (iii) for socio-economic
surveys.

 
SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Section I. Institutional and Other Arrangements

A.

Institutional Arrangements.

The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to establish, within
ninety (90) days of the Effective Date, and thereafter maintain its PMT with an
adequate organizational structure, with functions, powers, staff and resources
necessary and appropriate for Project implementation.

The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to establish, within
ninety (90) days of the Effective Date, and thereafter maintain its TRC with
functions, powers, staff and resources necessary and appropriate for Project
implementation.

The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to establish, within
ninety (90) days of the Effective Date, and thereafter maintain its CVU with
functions, powers, staff and resources necessary and appropriate for Project
implementation.

The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to:

(a) adopt, within one (1) month of the Effective Date, the Project Operational
Manual, satisfactory to the World Bank;

(b) carry out the Project in accordance with the Project Operational Manual;

(c) except as the World Bank shall otherwise agree in writing, not assign,
amend, abrogate, or waive or permit to be assigned, amended abrogated,
or waived, the Project Operational Manual or any provision thereof; and

(d) in the event of a conflict between the provisions of the Project Operations
Manual and those of this Agreement, the latter shall govern.

The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to hire a financial
management specialist within three (3) months of the Effective Date, whose terms
of reference is satisfactory to the World Bank.
Subsidiary Loan Agreement

To facilitate the carrying out Part 1 of the Project, the Borrower shall make the
proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to category (1) of the table set
forth in Section IV.A.2 of this Schedule available to the Project Implementing
Entity under a subsidiary loan agreement between the Borrower and the Project
Implementing Entity, under terms and conditions acceptable to the World Bank
(“Subsidiary Loan Agreement”), which shall include the obligation of the
Borrower to on-lend to the Project Implementing Entity, out of the proceeds of the
Loan, an amount not to exceed two million United States Dollars ($2,000,000), or
such other amounts as shall be agreed from time to time in writing with the World
Bank.

The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the World Bank and to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the World Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement or any of its provisions.

Sub-loans under Part 1 of the Project

For purposes of carrying out of Part 1 of the Project, the Borrower shall cause the
Project Implementing Entity to:

(a) select PBs in accordance with the selection procedures and eligibility
criteria set out in the Project Operations Manual;

(b) make Sub-Loans to PBs for the financing of Subprojects under sub-loan
agreements which shall include terms and conditions acceptable to the
World Bank (“Sub-loan Agreements”);

(c) maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and
evaluate the Sub-loans on an ongoing basis, and in accordance with the
Project Operations Manual;

(d) take or cause to be taken all action necessary or appropriate on its part to
enable the PBs to perform in accordance with the provisions of their
respective Sub-loan Agreements all the obligations of the PBs therein set
forth, and not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent
or interfere with such performance;
-10-

(e) exercise its rights under the Sub-loan Agreements in such manner as to
protect the interests of the Borrower and the World Bank and to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the World Bank shall
otherwise agree, not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any such Sub-loan
Agreement or any provision thereof;

(f) require the ESCOs to carry out the Subprojects under subproject
agreements which shall include terms and conditions acceptable to the
World Bank (“Subproject Agreements”);

(g) take or cause to be taken all action necessary or appropriate on its part to
enable the ESCOs to perform in accordance with the Subproject
Agreements all the obligations of the ESCOs therein set forth, and not take
or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with
such performance; and

(h) exercise its rights under the Subproject Agreements in such manner as to
protect the interests of the Borrower and the World Bank and to
accomplish the purposes of the Subprojects, and except as the World Bank
shall otherwise agree, not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any such
Subproject Agreement or any provision thereof.

Anti-Corruption

The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.

Safeguards

The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to carry out the Project
in accordance with the Safeguards Instruments.

Without limitation to the provision of Section II of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to take all measures necessary on its
part to regularly collect, compile, and submit to the World Bank, as part of the
Project Reports, information on the status of compliance with the Safeguards
Instruments, including details on:

(a) measures taken by the Project Implementing Entity in furtherance of the
Safeguards Instruments;
sil.

(b) conditions, if any, which interfere or threaten to interfere with the smooth

implementation of the Safeguards Instruments; and

(c) remedial measures taken, or required to be taken, to address such
conditions.

The Borrower shall ensure that:

(a) the proceeds of the Loan are not utilized for any purchase/acquisition of
land; and
(b) the following Project expenditures are financed exclusively out of the

Borrower’s own resources, and, to this end, the Borrower shall provide, as
promptly as needed, the resources required therefor, namely that, all
compensation, resettlement and/or rehabilitation payment to Displaced
Persons in accordance with the provision of the RPF and the respective
Resettlement Action Plan(s).

In the event of a conflict between the provisions of the Safeguards Instruments and
those of this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.

Section II. Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation

A.

Project Reports; Completion Report

The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to monitor and evaluate
the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the
provisions of Section 2.06 of the Standard Conditions and on the basis of the
indicators acceptable to the World Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the
period of each Fiscal Quadrimester and shall be furnished to the World Bank not
later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such report.

The Borrower shall prepare the Completion Report in accordance with the
provisions of Section 2.06 of the Standard Conditions. The Completion Report
shall be furnished to the World Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing
Date.
a ]2«

Financial Management; Financial Reports; Audits

The Borrower shall ensure that a financial management system is maintained in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of the Standard Conditions.

The Borrower shall ensure that interim unaudited financial reports for the Project
are prepared and furnished to the World Bank as part of the Project Report not later
that forty-five (45) days after the end of each Fiscal Quadrimester, covering the
Fiscal Quadrimester, in form and substance satisfactory to the World Bank.

The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements for the Project audited in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 (b) of the Standard Conditions.
Each such audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal
year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall
be furnished to the World Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such
period.

Section III. Procurement

All goods, works, non-consulting services and consulting services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in the Procurement Regulations and the provisions
of the Procurement Plan.

Section IV. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

A.

General

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article III of the Standard Conditions, this Section and such
additional instructions as the World Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the “Disbursement Guidelines for Investment Project Financing” dated
February 2017, as revised from time to time by the World Bank and as made
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
 

wit.

The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocations of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category:

Amount of the Percentage of Expenditures
Category Loan Allocated to be Financed
(expressed in USD) (inclusive of Taxes)

(1) Sub-Loans under Part 1 of 2,000,000 100% of amounts disbursed

B.

a

the Project

 

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.

The Closing Date is April 30, 2023.

 
4 ban

SCHEDULE 3

Repayment Schedule

Principal Amount of the Loan repayable
Date Payment Due (expressed as a percentage)

On each June 15 and December 15:

commencing June 15, 2029 to and
including December 15,2038

commencing June 15, 2039 to and
including December 15, 2058

   
7S.

APPENDIX
Definitions

“Alternative Energy Promotion Centre” or the acronym “AEPC” means the
Alternative Energy Promotion Centre, an institution with an autonomous status
under the purview of MoEWRI, established pursuant to the Alternative Energy
Promotion Development Board (Formation) Order 2053 (1996) dated November
3, 1996 under the Development Board Act of the Borrower, with the objective of
developing and promoting renewable and alternative energy technologies in Nepal.

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011 and as
of July 2016.

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.

“Credit Vertical Unit” or the acronym “CVU” means a unit to be established
pursuant to Section I.A.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and Section I.A.3 of
Schedule to the Project Agreement within the AEPC, with adequate credit
appraisal and monitoring procedures and systems in place, as well as dedicated
staff to enhance AEPC’s capacity to act as credit wholesaler during Project’s
implementation.

“Displaced Persons” means persons who, on account of the execution of the
Project, have experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts
caused by: (a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of
shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources
or means of livelihood, whether or not such persons must move to another location;
or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and protected
areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such persons; and a
“Displaced Person” means any of such Displaced Persons.

“Environmental and Social Impact Assessment” or the acronym “ESIA” means an
environmental and social impact assessment carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the ESMF with respect to each activity under the Project pursuant to
which the ESMF requires an environmental and social impact assessment, for the
purposes of determining environmental and social impacts associated with
the Project.
Lh.

~ 16 <

“Environmental and Social Management Framework” or the acronym “ESMF”
means the framework of the Borrower disclosed in-country on July 16, 2018,
setting forth the modalities for environmental and social screening and procedures
for the preparation and implementation of environmental and social management
systems, environmental and social assessments and environmental and social
management plans under the Project, and such term includes all schedules and
annexes to the ESMF, as the same may be amended from time to time with the
written agreement of the World Bank.

“Environmental and Social Management Plan” or the acronym “ESMP” means the
plan prepared and disclosed pursuant to the provisions of the ESMF, which sets
out, inter alia: (a) the specific actions, measures and policies designed to maximize
the benefits of the Project, as well as eliminate, offset or mitigate any adverse
environmental and/or social impacts, or reduce such impacts to acceptable levels,
during its design, construction and operation phases; (b) location, timeframe and
mitigation costs; (c) reference to the relevant laws, regulations, and contract
documents; and (d) responsibility for implementation and supervision, as said plan
may be revised from time to time, and such term includes any annexes or schedules
to such plan.

“ESCO” means a private sector energy service company or cooperatives to develop
and operate mini-grids, established pursuant to the laws of the Borrower.

‘Fiscal Quadrimester” means each of the following four (4) month periods within
the same Fiscal Year, namely on or around: (a) July 16 to November 15;
(b) November 16 to March 15; and (c) March 16 to July 15.

“Fiscal Year” means a fiscal year of the Borrower, commencing on or around
July 16 of a calendar year and concluding on or around July 15 of the following
calendar year.

‘“MoEWRI” means the Ministry of Energy, Water Resources and Irrigation of the
Borrower, or its successor thereto.

“Partner Bank” or “PB” means a commercial financial institution that meets the
eligibility criteria for participating in the Project as set forth in the Project
Operational Manual.

“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, dated
October 26, 2018, and provided for under Section IV of the Procurement
Regulations, as the same may be updated from time to time in agreement with the
World Bank.
Ly,

20.

Sers

“Procurement Regulations” means the “World Bank Procurement Regulations for
Borrowers under Investment Project Financing”, dated July 1, 2016, revised
November 2017 and August 2018.

“Project Implementing Entity” means the Alternative Energy Promotion Centre.

“Project Management Team” or “PMT” means a team established and to be
maintained by the Project Implementing Entity pursuant to Section I.A.1 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and Section I.A.1 of Schedule to the Project
Agreement.

“Project Operational Manual” means the manual to be adopted by the Project
Implementing Entity, pursuant to Section I.A.4(a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and Section I.A.4(a) of Schedule to the Project Agreement, in form and substance
satisfactory to the World Bank, setting forth, inter alia: (a) description of the
institutional arrangements related to the Project; (b) the administrative and
financial procedures related to the Project, including accounting, financial
reporting and auditing procedures; (c) the procedures for procurement,
disbursement, supervision, monitoring and impact evaluation in respect of the
Project; (d) the eligibility criteria and procedures and standards for the shortlisting
and selection and/or appraisal of the Subprojects; (e) the eligibility criteria,
procedures and standards for the selection of the Partner Banks; and (f) detailed
procedures for record keeping and disclosure of documents related to proposals
and selected Subprojects, as such manual may be revised from time to time with
the prior written approval of the World Bank.

“Resettlement Action Plan” or the acronym “RAP” means each of the resettlement
action plans to be prepared, pursuant to the requirements of the RPF, in form and
substance satisfactory to the World Bank, setting out, inter alia, measures for
compensation and resettlement of any Displaced Persons, including the magnitude
of displacement, compensation and resettlement arrangements, budget and cost
estimates, and sources of funding, together with adequate institutional, monitoring,
reporting and grievance redress arrangements capable of ensuring proper
implementation of, and regular feedback on compliance with its terms, as said plan
may be modified from time to time with the prior written no-objection of the World
Bank, and such term includes any annexes and schedules to such plan.

“Resettlement Policy Framework” or the acronym “RPF” means the Borrower’s
framework, dated July 16, 2018, as part of the ESMF, setting out measures and
actions to be taken during the implementation of the Project for the provision of
compensation, rehabilitation and resettlement assistance to any Displaced Persons,
and protocols and procedures for voluntary land donations, with related public
consultation, disclosure, monitoring, reporting and grievance redress procedures,
fli

bk

23.

24.

vay

26.

Zi.

are.

as said framework may be modified from time to time with the prior written no-
objection of the World Bank, and such term includes any schedules or annexes to
such framework.

“Safeguards Instruments” means collectively, the Environmental and
Social Management Framework, including the Resettlement Policy Framework
and the Vulnerable Community Development Framework, the Environmental and
Social Impact Assessments, the Environmental and Social Management Plans, the
Resettlement Action Plans, Vulnerable Community Development Plans, prepared
or to be prepared by the Project Implementing Entity or ESCOs on account of the
Project.

“SREP Design Document” is the design for the Scaling-up Renewable Energy
Program, approved by the Strategic Climate Fund Trust Fund Committee and
issued on June 1, 2009, and as said design may be amended from time to time in
accordance with its terms.

“Scaling-up Renewable Energy Program” or “SREP” means the program
established under the Strategic Climate Fund in accordance with the Governance
Framework for the Strategic Climate Fund for the purposes set forth in the SREP
Design Document.

“Standard Conditions” means the Standard Conditions for Loans Made by the
World Bank Out of the Climate Investment Funds, dated February 18, 2014.

“Sub-loan” means a loan made or proposed to be made by AEPC to a PB, out of
the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to Category (1) of the table
set forth in paragraph 2 of Part A of Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
for the purpose of Subproject Loans provided to the ESCO by the PB.

“Sub-loan Agreement” means an agreement between AEPC and the PB for the
purpose of providing a Sub-loan for the Subproject.

“Subproject” means a specific investment identified and proposed either by AEPC
or ESCOs that is selected to be financed under Part | of the Project in accordance
with criteria, requirements and procedures set out in the Project Operations
Manual, which is proposed to be carried out by an ESCO, in whole or in part
through the utilization of the proceeds of a Sub-loan, including but not limited to
the following areas: (a) construction of new micro-hydro, solar hybrid and wind
mini-grid; (b) rehabilitation of existing mini-grid; and (c) interconnection of the
mini-grids with the national grids.
28.

ed

30.

31.

3:

33.

10.

“Subproject Agreement” means an agreement between AEPC and ESCO for the
purpose of carrying out of the Subproject under Part 1 of the Project.

“Subproject Loan” means a loan made by a PB to an ESCO for financing the
Subproject under an agreement between a PB and an ESCO.

“TRC” means the Technical Review Committee to be established pursuant to
Section I.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and Section I.A.2 of Schedule to the
Project Agreement, through a decision by the Executive Director of AEPC to
support AEPC and PMT in reviewing and evaluating the Subproject proposals.

“Vulnerable Communities” means any distinct, vulnerable, social and cultural
group/community within the territory of the Borrower that: (i) self-identifies as
such and claims, and is recognized by others as, having a distinguishable cultural
identity; (ii) has collective attachment to geographically distinct habitats or
ancestral territories in the Project related area, and to the natural resources in those
habitat and territories; (iii) has customary cultural, economic, social and political
institutions that are separate from those of the dominant society and culture; and
(iv) has an indigenous language, often different from the official language of the
Borrower.

“Vulnerable Community Development Framework” or the acronym “VCDF”
means the Borrower’s framework, dated July 16, 2018, as part of the ESMF, setting
out measures and actions to be taken to ensure meaningful consultation with and
informed participation of Vulnerable Communities during the implementation of
the Project.

“Vulnerable Community Development Plan” or the acronym ““VCDP” means the
plan to be prepared and disclosed pursuant to the provisions set forth in the ESMF,
setting forth the principles and procedures designed to ensure meaningful
consultation with, and informed participation of Vulnerable Communities in the
design and implementation of the Project activities, capacity building and training
to Vulnerable Communities, as well as their participation in the envisioned
culturally appropriate and socially inclusive benefits thereof, as each such plan
may be revised, amended or supplemented from time to time with the prior
concurrence of the World Bank.
