Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

 

 

LOAN NUMBER 8914-UZ

OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

Loan Agreement

(Medium-Size Cities Integrated Urban Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between REPUBLIC OF

UZBEKISTAN = (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK ~— FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”). The Borrower and the Bank
hereby agree as follows:

1.01.

1.02.

2.01.

AMA;

2.03.

2.04.

LW.

2.06.

2.07.

3.01.

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply
to and form part of this Agreement.

Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or
in the Appendix to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IT — LOAN

The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of one hundred million
United States Dollars (US$100,000,000), as such amount may be converted
from time to time through a Currency Conversion (“Loan”), to assist in
financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”).

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.

The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on
the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.

The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Fixed Spread or such rate as
may apply following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General
Conditions.

The Payment Dates are May15 and November 15 in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule
3 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE If — PROJECT

The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through the MIFT in accordance
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
4.01.

4.02.

4.03.

5.01.

5.02.

5.03.

_2-

ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consist of the following: the Project
Operational Manual has been adopted by the MIFT, in a form and substance
acceptable to the Bank.

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the Signature
Date. .

For purposes of Section 9.05 (b) of the General Conditions, the date on which
the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement (other than those
providing for payment obligations) shall terminate is twenty (20) years after
the Signature Date.

ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Finance.

For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Borrower’s
address is:

Ministry of Finance

Istiqlol Street 29

Tashkent 100017

Republic of Uzbekistan; and

(b) the Borrower’s Electronic Address is:

Telex: Facsimile:
11 6360 IK BOL (998-71) 239-1225
(998-71) 244-5643

For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Bank’s
address is:

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America; and

(b) the Bank’s Electronic Address is:
Telex: Facsimile:

248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
AGREED as of the Signature Date.

REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN ge

 

Name: DG; MSAD _K Wer KAROV
Title: JE UY fRilte MnisTER AND MASTER OF FriOKnes

Date: AYRIA M 2OIF

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION

  
   

Authorized Representative

Name: (YK/d MULLER
Title: PEG 10 01h fiee (2 € SEU, EUROPE nid dsxurtn. Asin pec)

Date: A7KX/A “, 20/9
ae

SCHEDULE 1
Project Description

The objectives of the Project are to support the Borrower to: (a) improve
selected urban infrastructure, public spaces and assets, and access to services in
Participating Cities; and (b) strengthen the institutional capacity of the Borrower’s
relevant agencies to deliver and manage local infrastructure.

The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1. Improvement of Urban Services and Enhancement of Public Urban Spaces
Provision of support for selected infrastructure investments in the Participating
Cities to address the needs for targeted area-based urban upgrading and complementary

infrastructure, services and connectivity, and improve the livability of the Participating
Cities, through the carrying out of the following activities, inter alia:

(1) enhancement of public spaces and upgrading of street networks and
associated infrastructure (urbanscaping);
(11) construction works for the adaptive reuse of selected cultural heritage

buildings (taking into consideration energy efficiency standards);

(iii) | improvements in urban mobility and other urban infrastructure upgrading;

(iv) | improvements to selected basic infrastructure and services that are part of
larger networks when deemed necessary to address bottlenecks hindering
urban functionality and/or complement the long-term functionality and
increase effectiveness of area-specific urban upgrading efforts;

(v) upgrading of vehicular, pedestrian and multi-modal accesses, including
upgrading of bridges to reduce severance in all cities;

(vi) enhancement of local power transformers;

(vii) rehabilitating and improvements/modernization of trunk infrastructure,
including water supply and sewage networks;

(viii) support to solid waste management systems;

(ix) | upgrading of storm water drainage systems; and

(x) preparation of necessary feasibility studies, detailed designs (including
urban design studies), and construction supervision for the above listed
activities.

Part 2. Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building

1. Institutional strengthening and capacity building of the Participating Cities

Provision of capacity building support, through technical assistance and goods, to
the Participating Cities in the following areas, without being limited to: (i) asset
management systems and management of integrated urban mobility; (ii) sustainable
tourism development; and (iii) cooperation with the private sector.
-5-

2. Support of the National Medium-Size Cities Program

Capacity building and institutional strengthening of the agencies and ministries of
the Borrower to:

(1) carry out preliminary studies for the design of a national medium-size city
program, including the methodology and approach required to enable the
prioritization and preparation of integrated investment packages for the
Participating Cities; and

(ii) carry out activities, at the national level, in the following areas, without being
limited to: (a) public financial management; (b) sustainable tourism development;
and (c) integrated spatial/territorial planning, including consideration to civic
engagement and gender inclusion.

Part C. Implementation Support

Provision of support to the MIFT to: (i) carry out Project management
activities, including, monitoring, evaluation, coordination and supervision of the
Project, and Project audits; and (ii) develop and implement strategic communication
for the Project and citizens’ engagement activities.
. 6 -

SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Section I. Implementation Arrangements

Institutional Arrangements

The Borrower shall maintain, throughout the Project implementation the SC
with a structure, functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank, to
facilitate Project coordination and support.

(a) The MIFT shall: (1) maintain, throughout Project implementation, the PIU
with a structure, functions and responsibilities and adequate staff (all as further
described in the POM), all acceptable to the Bank, for the purposes of day-to-
day Project management, monitoring, evaluation and supervision, including
for the local working-level coordination; and (ii) carry out the Project in
accordance with the requirements, criteria, organizational arrangements and
operational procedures set forth in this Agreement and in the POM.

(b) In case of any inconsistency between the provisions of the POM and those
of this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.

The MIFT shall establish in a timely manner and maintain, throughout Project
implementation, the financial management capacity of the PIU satisfactory to
the Bank.

Safeguards

The MIFT shall ensure that the Project activities are carried out in accordance
with the Safeguards Documents.

Without limitation upon paragraph 1 above, the MIFT shall ensure that:

(a) for each activity under the Project for which the ESMF provides that an
ESIA and/or an ESMP shall be prepared, such ESIA and/or ESMP, as
appropriate: (i) is prepared in accordance with the ESMF; (ii) consulted
upon and disclosed locally; (iii) furnished to the Bank for approval; and
(iv) thereafter adopted prior to the implementation of such activity; all in
a manner acceptable to the Bank;

(b

—

for each activity under the Project for which the RPF provides that a RAP
shall be prepared, such RAP: (1) is prepared in accordance with the RPF;
(11) consulted upon and disclosed locally; (iii) furnished to the Bank for
approval; and (iv) thereafter adopted prior to the implementation of such
activity; all in a manner acceptable to the Bank; and
-7-

(c) pursuant to subparagraphs (a) and (b) above, the Project activities are
carried out in accordance with the ESIAs, ESMPs and RAPs, as
appropriate.

a Without limitation upon paragraphs | and 2 above, if any activity under the
Project would involve the Affected Persons, the MIFT shall ensure that no
physical or economic displacement shall occur before resettlement measures
under the respective RAP, including full payment to the Affected Persons of
compensation and other resettlement assistance, have been implemented, all in
a manner acceptable to the Bank.

4. The MIFT shall ensure that each contract for civil works under the Project
include the obligation of the relevant contractor to comply with relevant
Safeguards Documents applicable to such civil works commissioned/awarded
pursuant to said contract.

a, The MIFT shall maintain, throughout Project implementation, and publicize
the availability of a grievance redress mechanism, acceptable to the Bank, to
hear and determine fairly and in good faith all complaints raised in relation to
the Project, and take all measures necessary to implement the determinations
made by such mechanism in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.

6. The MIFT shall ensure that the terms of reference for any consultancy required
under the Project shall be satisfactory to the Bank following its review thereof,
and to that end, such terms of reference shall duly incorporate the requirements
of the Bank’s Safeguards Policies as applied to the advice conveyed through
such technical assistance.

7. The MIFT shall not amend, abrogate, suspend or waive, or permit to be
amended, abrogated, suspended or waived, any provision of Safeguard
Document without the prior written approval of the Bank.

8. In the event that any provision of the Safeguards Documents shall conflict with
any provision under this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall
prevail.

9. The MIFT shall ensure that the Project does not include any activities that

involve the use or potential pollution of International Waterways, except for
activities described in Part 1 (vii) and Part 1 (ix) of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.

Section II. Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

The MIFT shall furnish to the Bank each Project Report not later than one
month after the end of June and December of each year during Project implementation,
covering such preceding period.

Section III. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
General

Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions
and in accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter,
the Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to: (a) finance Eligible
Expenditures; and (b) pay: (i) the Front-end Fee; and (ii) each Interest Rate
Cap or Interest Rate Collar premium; in the amount allocated and, if applicable,
up to the percentage set forth against each Category of the following table:
  
   
  
   
 

  
 
 
 
   
  
     
 
 

Percentage of
Expenditures to be

  
    
  
 

 
 

Amount of the Loan Financed
Allocated (exclusive of Taxes other
Category (expressed in USD) than Withheld Taxes)

    
      
    
   
 
   

(1) Goods, works, non-
consulting services,
consulting services,
Incremental Operating
Costs and Training for the
Project

99,750,000 100%
Amount payable pursuant to
250,000

   

(2) Front-end Fee

      
  

  
    

General Conditions
Amount due pursuant to
Section 4.05 (c) of the
General Conditions

   

  
        
 

  

(3) Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar
premium

    
   
 

Section 2.03 of _ this

Agreement in accordance
TOTAL AMOUNT 100,000,000 Pe lm

with Section 2.07 (b) of the
B. Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

l. Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A above, no withdrawal shall be made
for payments made prior to the Signature Date.

2. The Closing Date is June 30, 2025.
-10-

SCHEDULE 3

Level Principal Repayments

On each May 15 and November 15
Beginning May 15, 2024
through November 15, 2048

      
 
   
-ll-

APPENDIX
Definitions

“Affected Person” means a person or entity who as a result of: (i) the
involuntary taking of land under the Project is affected in any of the following
ways: (A) relocation or loss of shelter; (B) loss of assets or access to assets; or
(C) loss of income sources or means of livelihood, whether or not the affected
person must move to another location; or (ii) the involuntary restriction of
access to legally designated parks and protected areas suffers adverse impacts
on his or her livelihood; and, “Affected Persons”, means more than one such
Affected Person.

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the
Appendix to the General Conditions, the “Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011
and as of July 1, 2016.

“Bank’s Safeguards Policies” means the Bank's operational safeguards policies
and procedures set forth in the Bank's Operational Manual under OP/BPs 4.01,
4.04, 4.09, 4.10, 4.11, 4.12, 4.36, 4.37. |

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section III.A of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.

“Chartak City” means the city of Chartak within the Namangan Region in the
eastern part of the Borrower’s territory, or any successor thereto, acceptable to
the Bank.

“ESIA” means an environmental and social impact assessment satisfactory to
the Bank, to be prepared by the Borrower pursuant to the provisions of ESMF
identifying and assessing the potential environmental impacts of the activities
to be undertaken under the Project, evaluating alternatives, and designing
appropriate mitigation, management and monitoring measures, and the
‘“ESIAs” means the plural thereof.

‘“ESMF” means the Borrower’s environmental and social management
framework, acceptable to the Bank, and disclosed by the Borrower on
September 17, 2018, and on the Bank’s website on October 8, 2018, providing
for, inter alia: (a) the Safeguard Documents; (b) environmental and social
impacts associated with the proposed investments and generic mitigation
measures; (c) guidelines on conducting environmental screening, as well as the
ESIA, including defining mitigation measures and monitoring activities for
different types of activities; (d) roles and responsibilities in environmental
assessment process and in supervision and reporting; (e) the ESMP and ESMP
Checklist to be applied within the environmental assessment process; and (f)
capacity building activities to ensure an efficient ESMF implementation, as the
said framework may be amended and/or supplemented from time to time with
10.

11.

12.

13.

-12-

the prior written consent of the Bank, and such term includes any schedules to
such document.

“SMP” means a site specific environmental and social management plan,
satisfactory to the Bank, to be prepared by the Borrower pursuant to the
provisions of ESMF, as such plan may be amended from time to time with the
prior written approval of the Bank, and “ESMPs” means the plural thereof.

“ESMP Checklist” means a_ site-specific Environmental and Social
Management Plan Checklist, as required by the ESMF, and satisfactory to the
Bank, developed specifically for minor construction/rehabilitation works in
respect of activities to be undertaken under the Project at a specific site and
defining details of measures to manage potential environmental risks and
mitigate, reduce and/or offset adverse environmental impacts associated with
the implementation of said activities, together with adequate institutional,
monitoring and reporting arrangements capable of ensuring proper
implementation of, and regular feedback on compliance with, its terms, as the
same may be amended and supplemented from time to time with the Bank’s
prior written approval; and “ESMP Checklists” means the plural thereof.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project
Financing”, dated July 14, 2017.

“Incremental Operating Costs” means incremental operating expenditures
incurred by the MIFT and PIU, on account of activities related to the
management, monitoring, evaluation, coordination and implementation of the
Project, including office equipment maintenance and repair, vehicles, local
travel, communication, translation and interpretation, bank charges, consulting
services, salaries of staff for the PIU and other costs of similar nature directly
associated with the Project, all based on periodic budgets acceptable to the
Bank.

“International Waterways” means: (a) any river, canal, lake, or similar body of
water that forms a boundary between, or any river or body of surface water that
flows through, two or more states; (b) any tributary or other body of surface
water that is a component of any waterway described in (a) above; and (c) any
bay, gulf, strait, or channel bounded by two or more states or, if within one
state, recognized as a necessary channel of communication between the open
sea and other states, and any river flowing into such waters.

“Kagan City” means the means the city of Kagan within the Bukhara Region
of the Borrower’s territory, or any successor thereto, acceptable to the Bank.

‘“MIFT” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Investment and Foreign Trade or
any successor thereto.
15.

18.

19.

20.

bls

Ze.

23.

-13-

“Participating Cities” means, collectively, Kagan City, Yangiyul City and
Chartak City, as well as any other city selected by the Borrower in consultation
with, and upon approval by, the Bank, and in accordance with the POM.

“Procurement Regulations” means, for purposes of paragraph 85 of the
Appendix to the General Conditions, the “World Bank Procurement
Regulations for IPF Borrowers”, dated July 2016, revised November 2017 and
August 2018.

“Project Implementation Unit” or “PIU” means the unit established under the
MIFT pursuant to charter dated August 13, 2018, registration number 1181921,
or any successor thereto, acceptable to the Bank.

“Project Operational Manual” or “POM” means the manual, acceptable to the
Bank, and adopted by the MIFT in accordance with Section 5.01 (a) of this
Agreement setting forth, inter alia: (a) the operational and administrative
responsibilities: (b) procedures and rules for the implementation of the Project:
(c) data collection and reporting: and (d) a manual of financial management
procedures that sets out procedures for Project accounting, reporting and audit,
disbursements, flow of funds and management of the designated account, as
said manual the same may be amended from time to time with the agreement
of the Bank.

“RAP” means a site specific resettlement action plan, satisfactory to the Bank,
to be prepared by the MIFT pursuant to the provisions of RPF for
compensation, resettlement and rehabilitation of the Affected Persons, in
connection with the works to be implemented under the Project, as such plan
may be amended from time to time with the prior written approval of the Bank,
and “RAPs” means the plural thereof.

“Resettlement Policy Framework” or “RPF” means the Borrower’s
framework, acceptable to the Bank, and disclosed by the Borrower on
September 17, 2018, and on the Bank’s website on October 5, 2018, setting
forth the policies and procedures to prepare and implement RAPs, as the said
framework may be amended and/or supplemented from time to time with the
prior written consent of the Bank, and such term includes any schedules to such
document.

“Safeguards Documents” means, collectively, the ESMF, RPF, ESIAs,
ESMPs, ESMP Checklists and RAPs; and “Safeguards Document” means any
of such Safeguards Documents.

“Signature Date” means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and
the Bank signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to
“the date of the Loan Agreement” in the General Conditions.

“Steering Committee” or “SC” means the Borrower’s committee established
pursuant to Instruction issued by the Deputy Prime Minister/MIFT, dated May
7, 2018.
24.

eo.

26.

a Sl

“Training” means expenditures proposed by the MIFT in connection with the
Project related study tours, training courses, seminars, workshops and other
training activities, including costs of training materials, space and equipment
rental, travel, accommodation and per diem costs of trainees and trainers,
trainers’ fees, and other training related miscellaneous costs, as approved by
the Bank.

“Withheld Taxes” means the following taxes withheld at source: taxes for |
social charges; income taxes for residents and non-residents; and custom
registrations duties withheld at the source.

“Yangiyul City” means the city of Yangiyul within the Tashkent Region of the
Borrower’s territory, or any successor thereto, acceptable to the Bank.
