Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

LOAN NUMBER 8932-PH

OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

Loan Agreement

(Improving Fiscal Management Development Policy Loan)
between
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between the REPUBLIC OF THE

PHILIPPINES (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank’’) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the
Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Bank has decided to provide
this financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (i) the actions which the Borrower has already taken
under the Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(11) the Borrower’s maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic policy framework. The
Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows:

1.01.

1.02.

2.01.

2.02.

2.03

2.04.

Odes

2.06.

2.07.

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to and
form part of this Agreement.

Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to
this Agreement.

ARTICLE II — LOAN
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of four hundred and fifty million
Dollars ($450,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through
a Currency Conversion (“Loan’’).

The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.

The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.

The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Variable Spread or such rate as may
apply following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General Conditions.

The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.

Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.05 of the General Conditions,
the Borrower shall promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the
provisions of this Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request.
4.01.

5.01.

5.02.

5.03.

6.01.

6.02.

"a

ARTICLE II — PROGRAM

The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation. To
this end, and further to Section 5.05 of the General Conditions:

(a) the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either
party, exchange views on the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework
and the progress achieved in carrying out the Program and the actions
specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

(b) without limitation upon paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall
promptly inform the Bank of any situation that would have the effect of
materially reversing the objectives of the Program or any action taken under
the Program including any action specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK

The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that a
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant
part of it, will be carried out.

ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that
the Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the
Program and with the adequacy of the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy
framework.
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the Signature Date.
For purposes of Section 9.05 (b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the

obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement (other than those providing for
payment obligations) shall terminate is twenty years after the Signature Date.

ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
The Borrower’s Representative is its Secretary of Finance.

For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Borrower’s address
iS:

Department of Finance
Department of Finance Building

GT
«in

Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas Complex
Roxas Blvd.
Manila, Philippines

Facsimile:
(63-2) 523-9216

For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Bank’s address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development

1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America; and

(b) the Bank’s Electronic Address is:

Telex: Facsimile: E-mail:
248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391 PhilippinesCMU@worldbankgroup.org
64145(MCI)
AGREED as of the Signature Date.

REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES

    
 

esentative
Name: __CARLoS ©. DOMINGUE?

Title: SECRETARY

Date: APR } ? 2018

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT

By

a 7 Fr akKillyn CL wok
Authorized Representative

Name: 44VARA WAR Wick

Title: COUAJZR V PIRECTOR,

Date: APR 02 2019
_5-

SCHEDULE 1
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds
Section I. Actions Taken under the Program
The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following:
Pillar I: Strengthening Tax Policy
1. The Borrower has increased the excise tax on petroleum products.

2. The Borrower has expanded the tax (VAT) base by repealing special laws with non-
essential VAT exemptions.

Pillar I: Enhancing Public Finance Management and Budget Planning

3. The Borrower implements a centralized budget management system as part of its
adopted budget reform agenda.

4. The Borrower has shifted from obligation-based budget planning and execution to a
one-year cash appropriation for the national budget.

Pillar III: Strengthening Fiscal Risk Management of Public Assets

5. The Borrower is implementing a policy for comprehensive financial risk
management of public assets against disasters, by setting up the required institutional
structure and placing financial instruments that insure key assets.

Section IIT. Availability of Loan Proceeds

A. General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank may
specify by notice to the Borrower.

B. Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche,
from which the Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds. The
allocation of the amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below:

Allocated

Allocations
expressed in USD

1) Single Withdrawal Tranche 450,000,000
TOTAL AMOUNT 450,000,000

Amount of the Loan

   

   
  

 

   
-6-

Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions.

l.

No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the
Bank is satisfied: (a) with the Program being carried out by the Borrower;
and (b) with the adequacy of the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy
framework.

Deposit of Loan Amounts.

Tee

The Borrower, within thirty (30) days after the withdrawal of the Loan from
the Loan Account, shall report to the Bank: (a) the exact sum received into
the account referred to in Section 2.03 (a) of the General Conditions; (b) the
details of the account to which the Philippine Peso equivalent of the Loan
proceeds will be credited; (c) the record that an equivalent amount has been
accounted for in the Borrower’s budget management systems; and (d) the
statement of receipts and disbursement of the account referred to in Section
2.03 (a) of the General Conditions.

Closing Date. The Closing Date is March 31, 2020.
oF

SCHEDULE 2
Commitment-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage of
the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date (“Installment
Share’).

Level Principal Repayments!

On each April 15and October 15
Beginning April 15, 2029
through April 15, 2037 5.56%

On October 15, 2037 5.48%

   
  
 

   
 
 
        
   

' The determination of the principal amounts of the Loan repayable on each Principal Payment Date
is made in accordance with Section 3.03 of the General Conditions.
-8-

APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

le

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Development Policy
Financing”, dated December 14, 2018.

“Program” means: the program of objectives, policies, and actions set forth or
referred to in the letter dated February 14, 2019, from the Borrower to the Bank
declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and
requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its execution
and comprising actions taken, including those set forth in Section I of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement, and actions to be taken consistent with the program’s objectives.

“Signature Date” means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the
Bank signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to “the date
of the Loan Agreement” in the General Conditions.

“Single Withdrawal Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the
category entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of
Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

“VAT” means value-added tax.
