Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

SCF LOAN NUMBER TFOA8845

Strategic Climate Fund
Forest Investment Program
Loan Agreement

(Integrated Forest Landscape Management Project in Atalaya, Ucayali -
Mejoramiento de los Servicios de Apoyo al Aprovechamiento Sostenible de la Biodiversidad de
los Ecosistemas en el Paisaje Forestal en los Distritos de Raimondi-Distrito de Sepahua-Distrito
de Tahuania-Provincia de Atalaya-Region Ucayali)

between
REPUBLIC OF PERU
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Acting as administrator of the Forest Investment Program
under the Strategic Climate Fund

Dated 14 FERRE RO , 20179
SCF LOAN NUMBER TFO0A8845

STRATEGIC CLIMATE FUND LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT dated 14 FEARERO , 2014, entered into between

the REPUBLIC OF PERU (“Borrower”) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“World Bank”), acting as administrator
of the Forest Investment Program under the Strategic Climate Fund.

1.01.

LAE.

2.01.

202.

LS.

The Borrower and the World Bank hereby agree as follows:

Article I
Standard Conditions; Definitions

The Standard Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.

Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the Standard Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.

Article II
Loan

The World Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set
forth or referred to in this Agreement, the amount of six million four hundred
thousand United States Dollars (USD 6,400,000) (“Loan”), to assist in financing
the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”).

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower’s Representative for purposes
of taking any action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this Section is
the Borrower’s Minister of MEF or the Borrower’s Director of Indebtedness and
Public Treasury (DGETP), or any person whom any of them shall designate in
writing.

The Loan is funded out of the resources made available to the World Bank as an
implementing entity of the SCF. In accordance with Section 3.02 of the Standard
Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement), the World Bank’s
payment obligations in connection with this Agreement are limited to the amount of
funds made available to it from the SCF trust fund, and the Borrower’s right to
withdraw the Loan proceeds is subject to the availability of such funds.

LRA ISET LATS PEPE SCT

SECT Ere er APO ms tee ERE AT

TINO OTRO ETE EAT RE

NN LET OSCR OE ORT

ee ee

iy See SHES

es
2.04.

2.06.

2.07.

4.01.

4.02.

The Service Charge payable by the Borrower on the Withdrawn Loan Balance
shall be equal to one-fourths of one percent (1/4 of 1%) per annum.

The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the repayment
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

The Payment Currency is USD.

Article III
The Project

The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through MINAM’s PNCBMCC, in
accordance with the provisions of Article II of the Standard Conditions.

Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower, through PNCBMCC, and the World Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

Article IV
Effectiveness; Termination

The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:

(a) the SCF Grant Agreement has been executed and delivered and all
conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Recipient to
make withdrawals under it (other than the effectiveness of this Agreement)
have been fulfilled; and

(b) the Borrower, through PNCBMCC, has adopted the Operational Manual
(OM) in form and substance satisfactory to the World Bank.

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
 

VU

5.02.

5.03.

Article V
Borrower’s Representative; Addresses

The Borrower’s Representative referred to in Section 7.02 of the Standard
Conditions is its Minister of Economy and Finance, provided that the Borrower’s
Director of Indebtedness and Public Treasury, may, by him or herself represent the
Borrower to sign amendments and/or notices to this Agreement which are
considered of an administrative and non-financial nature. The signing by such
Director of an amendment and/or notice shall constitute a representation by the
Borrower that any such amendment and/or notice is considered to be
administrative and non-financial in nature.

The Borrower’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the Standard Conditions is:

Ministry of Economy and Finance
Jr. Junin 319
Lima, Peru

Facsimile: +51 (1) 626-9921

The World Bank’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the Standard Conditions
is:

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America

Telex: Facsimile:

248423 (MCI) or 1-202-477-6391
64145 (MCI)

 
/
AGREED at U4 HA a PERU , as of the day and year first above

written.

REPUBLIC OF PERU :
By Ved ni
Authorized Representative

Nanie: CARO? 0A ee

Title: MiniStRO DE Economia
y FinanZAS

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Acting as administrator of the Forest Investment Fund
under the Strategic Climate Fund

MLL

Authorized Representative

Name: ALAERAD Wde 1 GJEZ
Title: COUNTEN DilecCTOR

   

By

 
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description

The objective of the Project is to strengthen sustainable management and use of

forest landscapes in the Raimondi, Sepahua and Tahuania districts of the Borrower's
Atalaya province.

Part 1.

1.1

(a)

(b)

Lee

(a)

(b)

(c)

Part 2.

fil

The Project consists of the following parts:

Institutional Strengthening for Forest Conservation

Provision of land use rights in forest landscapes and promoting community-level
land-use planning

Provision of technical and legal assistance support to Indigenous Peoples of Native
Communities located in the Raimondi, Sepahua and Tahuania districts, for
recognition, demarcation, and titling, before SUNARP, and expansion of
territories.

Provision of support to responsible national and local agencies and organizations
for demarcation and georeferencing processes, of Native Communities with land
title.

Strengthening enabling conditions for forest management

Provision of support to relevant forestry and environmental authorities to foster
reduced forest-related illegal activities and ensure compliance with sustainable
forest management practices, through, inter alia, strengthening information
management and monitoring systems, increasing institutional transparency and
accountability across relevant institutions, and building the skills base and
capacity of forest stakeholders around sustainability principle.

Provision of support to strengthen the planning, operation, and oversight of forest
landscapes by Monitoring and Oversight Committees.

Provision of support to develop a common vision within the Native Communities
for forest landscape management through the design and implementation of

Native Communities’ life plans.

Strengthening sustainable forest landscape management and use

Strengthening technical and business capacities of forest communities and small
producers to better manage forests

Provision of support to Native Communities and small producers to: (a) develop

Sa

es

ee aaa...

es

SVS SS.LQ————E
hak

Business Plans for timber and non-timber forest management activities,
agroforestry, ecotourism, among others; (b) implement Business Plans, including
strengthening their organizational, administrative, and commercial capacities to
implement Business Plans; (c) organize and develop forest enterprises and
community associations; (d) facilitate access to markets for their products and
create alliances with the private sector to improve profitability of investments; and
(e) disseminate and exchange knowledge of successful tools and experiences.

Investing in forest landscapes

Provision of financing to Beneficiaries for the implementation of the Business
Plans including, inter alia: (a) technical assistance in managerial, commercial, and
technical capacities; (b) training in implementation of technological packages and
marketing; (c) provision of equipment and goods; and (d) carrying out of minor
works.

Part 3. Project Management, Monitoring, and Evaluation

Provision of support to the PNCBMCC for carrying out management and supervision
functions for Parts 1 and 2 of the Project including procurement, financial management,
coordination, reporting, monitoring and evaluation activities.
Section I.

A.

r,

SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Institutional and Other Arrangements

Institutional Arrangements

The Borrower shall:

(a)

(b)

(c)

maintain throughout the period of Project implementation, a Project
Management Team (PMT) within PNCBMCC, responsible for project
coordination, management and administration (including financial
management, procurement, monitoring, evaluation, and reporting),
composed of qualified experts in adequate numbers with terms of
reference, qualifications and powers acceptable to the World Bank as
further described in the OM;

(i) prepare and exchange views with the World Bank on each proposed
Project Annual Program (POA); (ii) submit it to the Project Oversight
Committee for approval no later than June 30 in each calendar year during
Project implementation; and (iii) once approved by the Project Oversight
Committee, furnish a copy to the World Bank; and

carry out the activities included in the POA as shall have been agreed
between the Borrower, through PNCBMCC, and the World Bank, and as
approved by the Project Oversight Committee. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, the POA might be amended from time to time to include new
activities with the prior and written concurrence of the World Bank.

The Borrower shall:

(a)

(b)

(c)

within 90 days after Effective Date, the Borrower, through PNCBMCC,
shall hire a financial management specialist, in form and substance
satisfactory to the World Bank;

within 90 days after Effective Date, the Borrower, through PNCBMCC,
shall hire a procurement specialist, in form and substance satisfactory to
the World Bank;

carry out the Project in accordance with a manual (Operational Manual)
satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include, inter alia: (i) the Project’s
overall operating, fiduciary, and decision-making procedures; (ii) the
terms of reference, functions and responsibilities for the members or the
PMT in charge of Project implementation and management; (iii)
procedures for procurement of goods, works, non-consulting services,
consultants’ services, Operating Costs, and Training, as well as for
financial management and internal and external audits under the Project;
(iv) performance indicators to be used in the monitoring and evaluation of
the Project; (v) the customized statements of expenditures, the interim
financial reports, and Project reports; (vi) the model Implementation
Agreement; (vii) the criteria and guidelines for the selection of the
Business Plans and Beneficiaries; and (viii) the ESMF. In the event that
any provision of the Project Operational Manual shall conflict with this
Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail;

(d) enter into an agreement with the relevant Beneficiary (“Implementation
Agreement”) for the implementation of any Business Plan under Part 2.2
of the Project, under terms and conditions approved by the Bank and
included in the OM; and

(e) exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under each Implementation
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and
the World Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as
the World Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign,
amend, abrogate, waive, terminate or fail to enforce any Implementation
Agreement or any provision thereof.

Anti-Corruption

The Borrower, through PNCBMCC, shall ensure that the Project is carried out in
accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.

Safeguards

The Borrower, through PNCBMCC, shall: (a) carry out the Project in accordance
with the ESMF; (b) comply with the procedures detailed in said ESMF for
environmental screening, evaluation, implementation and monitoring, including
the procedures for the preparation of environmental and/or social management
plans, and pest management plans, if applicable; and (c) if applicable, implement
and/or cause to be implemented, the pertinent environmental and _ social
management plan, in accordance with its terms and in a manner acceptable to the
World Bank.
Section II. Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation

A. Project Reports; Completion Report

i The Borrower, through PNCBMCC, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the
Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section
2.06 of the Standard Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth below
in the OM. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar year, and
shall be furnished to the World Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the
end of the period covered by such report.

i The Borrower, through PNCBMCC, shall prepare the Completion Report in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.06 of the Standard Conditions. The
Completion Report shall be furnished to the World Bank not later than six (6)
months after the Closing Date.

B. Financial Management; Financial Reports; Audits

& The Borrower, through PNCBMCC shall ensure that a financial management
system is maintained in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of the
Standard Conditions.

:s The Borrower, through PNCBMCC, shall ensure that interim unaudited financial
reports for the Project are prepared and furnished to the World Bank not later than
forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar semester, covering the semester,
in form and substance satisfactory to the World Bank.

3; The Borrower, through PNCBMCC, shall have its Financial Statements for the
Project audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07(b) of the
Standard Conditions. Each such audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the
period of one fiscal year of the Borrower or any other period agreed with the World
Bank. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to
the World Bank not later than six months after the end of such period.

Section III. Procurement

All goods, works, non-consulting services and consulting services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in
accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in the Procurement
Regulations and the provisions of the Procurement Plan.
Section IV. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. General

l. The Borrower, through PNCBMCC, may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in
accordance with the provisions of Article III of the Standard Conditions, this
Section and such additional instructions as the World Bank may specify by notice
to the Borrower (including the “Disbursement Guidelines for Investment Project
Financing” dated February 2017, as revised from time to time by the World Bank
and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance
Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.

he The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocations of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category:

   

      
   
        
       

Category Amount of the Loan Percentage of Expenditures

Allocated (expressed in to be Financed
USD) (exclusive of Taxes)

900,000 100%
5,500,000 100%

B. Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

    

      
 

(1) Goods, _non-
consulting services and
consulting services
under Part 2.1 of the
Project

  
   
   
   
     
   
  

(2) Goods, minor
works, non-consulting
services, consulting
services and Training
for Business Plans
under Part 2.2. of the
Project

  
       
    

l. Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.

2 The Closing Date is August 31, 2024.

10
 

 

 

Section V. Other Undertakings

l.

By June 30, 2021, or such other date as the World Bank shall agree upon, the
Borrower shall: (i) carry out, jointly with the Project Oversight Committee and the
World Bank, a mid-term review of the implementation of the Project, which shall
cover the progress achieved in the implementation of the Project; and (ii) following
such mid-term review, act promptly and diligently to take any corrective action as
shall be agreed by the World Bank.
SCHEDULE 3

Repayment Schedule

Date Payment Due Principal Amount of the Loan

repayable
expressed as a percentage
|OneachMay1SandNovember15: |

commencing May 15, 2029 to and including 1%
November 15, 2038

commencing May 15, 2039 to and including 2%
November 15, 2058

       

     
    
   
    

  

   
APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

l.

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011 and as
of July 1, 2016.

“Beneficiaries” means: (i) Indigenous Peoples and Native Communities; and/or
(ii) small forest users, including producers, producer associations and small
enterprises, which shall be eligible to carry out Business Plans within the districts
of Tahuania, Sepahua and Raimondi in the Atalaya Province.

“Business Plans” means any eligible investment plan promoting sustainable forest
management, including, inter alia, investments in agroforestry, ecotourism, timber
and non-timber products, or any other eligible investment as defined in the
Operational Manual, approved by the Borrower and to be carried out by a
Beneficiary.

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.

“ESME” or “Environmental and Social Management Framework” means the
framework adopted by the Borrower and dated May 31, 2018, acceptable to the
World Bank, as published and available to the public on the World Bank
Operations Portal and on the website http://www.bosques.gov.pe/publicaciones,
which contains the environmental protection measures in respect of the Project,
including, inter alia: (a) measures for chance findings of cultural property; (b)
measures for protection of natural habitats; (c) guidelines for the adoption of pest
management measures in all applicable activities, and the preparation of pest
management plans, when applicable; (d) guidelines for community forest
management and permitting process; (e) guidelines for the identification of existing
environmental conditions and potential direct and indirect environmental impacts
resulting from the carrying out of the Project; (f) guidelines for the carrying out of
environmental assessments and the preparation of environmental management
plans, when applicable; (g) the recommendation of mitigation measures for each
negative impact identified; and (h) measures for enhancing each identified positive
impact, as said framework may be amended from time to time with the prior written
approval of the World Bank.

“FIP Design Document” is the design document for the Forest Investment
Program, approved by the Strategic Climate Fund Trust Fund Committee and
issued on July 7, 2009, and as said design may be amended from time to time in
accordance with its terms.

“Forest Investment Program” or “FIP” means the program established under the
Strategic Climate Fund in accordance with the Governance Framework for the
Strategic Climate Fund for the purposes set forth in the FIP Design Document.

“Implementation Agreement” means each agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and a Beneficiary for carrying out a Business Plan, as specified in
Section I.A.2(d) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Indigenous Peoples” or “IP” means a distinct, vulnerable, social and cultural
group possessing the following characteristics in varying degrees: (a) self-
identification as members of a distinct indigenous cultural group and recognition
of this identity by others; (b) collective attachment to geographically distinct
habitats or ancestral territories in the project area and to the natural resources in
these habitats and territories; (c) customary cultural, economic, social, or political
institutions that are separate from those of the dominant society and culture; and
(d) an indigenous language, often different from the official language of the
country or region.

“MINAM” means Ministerio del Ambiente, the Borrower’s Ministry of the
Environment, or any successor acceptable to the World Bank.

“Monitoring and Oversight Committees” means Comités de Vigilancia y
Monitoreo, local Beneficiary committees responsible for oversight and
surveillance, in coordination with corresponding environmental and forestry
authorities.

“Native Communities” means communities who originate from the Borrower’s
tribal groups of Se/va and Ceja de Selva and are constituted by family groups
associated with the following primary elements: language or dialect, cultural and
social characteristics, possession and common and permanent usufruct of the same
territory, with nuclear or dispersed settlement, pursuant to Article 8 of the
Borrower’s Law No. 22175.

“Operating Costs” means the reasonable incremental operating costs (which would
not have been incurred in the absence of the Project), as said costs are approved
each year through the Project Annual Program, and related to Project technical and
administrative management, monitoring and supervision required under the
Project, including inter alia, technical and operational support staff, office
equipment, supplies, travel costs (including accommodations, transportation costs
and per diem), printing services, communication costs, utilities, maintenance of
office equipment and facilities and logistics services.
14.

18.

19.

20.

“is

bhi

23

“Operational Manual” or “OM” means the Borrower's manual referred to in
Section I.A.2(c) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time with the agreement of the World Bank.

“PMT” means the Project Management Team within PNCBMCC referred to in
Section I.A.1(a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“PNCBMCC” means Programa Nacional de Conservacion de Bosques para la
Mitigacién del Cambio Climatico, MINAM’s National Program for Forest
Conservation for Climate Change Mitigation, created by the Borrower’s Decree
(Decreto Supremo) No. 008-2010-MINAM.

“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, dated
October 16, 2018 and provided for under Section IV of the Procurement
Regulations, as the same may be updated from time to time in agreement with the
World Bank.

“Procurement Regulations” means the “World Bank Procurement Regulations for
IPF Borrowers”, dated July 2016, revised November 2017.

“Project Annual Program” or “POA” means the program of activities proposed for
inclusion in the Project during the following calendar year, including: (a) a detailed
timetable for the sequencing and implementation of said activities; (b) the types of
expenditures required for such activities; and (c) the planned procurement methods
for the expenditures, prepared by the Borrower during Project implementation and
approved by the Project Oversight Committee and the World Bank.

“Project Oversight Committee” means a management committee (Grupo de
Trabajo denominado Comité Directivo) for the Project, which serves as the
Project’s main oversight body that approves annual implementation plans and
reviews Project progress, comprised of representatives of the MINAM, Ministry
of Economy and Finance (MEF), Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation
(MINAGRI), the Ministry of Culture, and Regional Government of Ucayali.

“SCF Grant Agreement” means the agreement between the Borrower and the
World Bank for the Project, of the same date as this Agreement, as such agreement
may be amended from time to time. “SCF Grant Agreement” includes all
appendices, schedules and agreements supplemental to the Grant Agreement.

“Standard Conditions” means the Standard Conditions for Loans Made by the
World Bank Out of the Climate Investment Funds, dated February 18, 2014.

“SUNARP” means Superintendencia Nacional de los Registros Publicos, the
Borrower’s national public registry office, or any successor aceptable to the World
Bank.
«~

24.

“Training” means the training of persons involved in Project-supported activities,
based on the Project Annual Program approved by the World Bank, such term
including scholarships, seminars, workshops, and study tours, and costs associated
with such activity, including travel and subsistence costs for training participants,
costs associated with securing the services of trainers, rental of training facilities,
preparation and reproduction of training materials, and other costs directly related
to training preparation and implementation.
