Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

LOAN NUMBER 8946-EC

Loan Agreement

(Social Safety Net Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between the REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR

(“Borrower”) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:

101:

1.02.

PAU

wll

2.03.

2.04.

209.

2.06.

2.07.

3.01.

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to and form
part of this Agreement.

Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.

ARTICLE Il — LOAN

The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of three hundred fifty million Dollars
(USD 350,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1
to this Agreement (“Project”).

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section III of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.

The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.

The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Fixed Spread or such rate as may apply
following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General Conditions.

The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.

ARTICLE II — PROJECT

The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall carry out Parts 1.2., 1.3., 2.2. and 2.3. and partially 2.4. of the Project
through MIES, and Parts 1.1., 2.1. and partially 2.4. of the Project through SENPLADES,
in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and Schedule 2
to this Agreement.
4.01.

5.01.

5.02.

5.03.

ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the Signature Date.

ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

Except as provided in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower’s Representative is
the Minister of Economy and Finance.

For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions, the Borrower’s address is:
Ministry of Economy and Finance

Av. Amazonas y Pereira, Plataforma Financiera

Quito, Ecuador

Telephone: (5932) 399-8500

For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) the Bank’s address is:

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America; and

(b) the Bank’s Electronic Address is:

Telex: Facsimile:

248423(MCID or 1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
AGREED as of the Signature Date.

  

 

uthorized Representative

Name: FRANCISCO CARR ow MEW A-
Title: AmgassAdor Wey Bute tf EtvADOR

70 FWE USA
Date: U/y 2 of
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR

RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By

  

Authorized Re

  

Name: OT SENISURG

Title: ee fr E<(/DEAT_

Lhim lvEn en 4 CAAVOBEAN

Date: Til PAR, ADY .
SCHEDULE 1

Project Description

The objective of the Project is to improve the equity, integration and sustainability of
selected social safety net programs. |

The Project consists of the following parts:

Part 1. Improving equity, integration and sustainability of the Selected Social Safety Net
Programs

1.1: Improvements in the Social Registry

Provision of financing to the EEPs to strengthen the Social Registry through, inter alia:

(a) Updating and improving Social Registry data: (i) revising the data-collection strategy,
including protocols, calendar and data-quality monitoring processes; (ii) developing a
communication strategy for the roll-out of the Social Registry; (iii) enhancing existing
information and technology tools; and (iv) finalizing the data-collection process,
including hiring universities or other third parties to undertake surveys.

(b) Improving accuracy of the Social Registry’s beneficiary selection mechanism: transition
the Selected Social Safety Net Programs to use the new Social Registry Index (SOCIAL
REGISTRY 2018).

(c) Strengthen the Social Registry regulatory framework.

1.2: Improving integration within Selected Social Safety Net Programs

Provision of financing to the EEPs to increase the access of Eligible Beneficiaries to an integrated
package of cash transfers and complementary social services, including inter alia:

(a) (i) Updating the operational rules and manuals for each Selected Social Safety Net
Program, and the preparation of joint operational rules and manuals to ensure integration;
and (11) developing and updating of service provision maps aligned with the poorest
targeted population, and the provision of support to increase MIES operational capacity
in delivering complementary services, directly or through performance-based
agreements with GADs and NGOs.

(b) Carrying out of activities aimed to enhance the Accompaniment Mechanisms provided
to beneficiaries of the BDH-V and the PMMA.

1.3: Improving the sustainability of Selected Social Safety Net Programs

Provision of financing to the EEPs for the development and application of comprehensive exit
strategy for Eligible Beneficiaries that receive the BDH or BDH-V, through the CDH.
Part 2: Technical Assistance for Capacity Building & Monitoring and Evaluation

Provision of support to improve the effectiveness of the Selected Social Safety Net Programs and
to support institutional capacity building.

2.1: Technical Assistance to support equity improvements

Provision of support for Part 1.1 of the Project, including, inter alia: (a) the verification of
collected data from massive processes; (b) regular updating of some variables of the Social
Registry and the update of the family composition; and (c) standardizing the information transfer
process between the Social Registry and the programs that use the social registry data, as well as
to guide entities in the use of the Social Registry to design strategies and public policies.

2.2: Technical Assistance to support integration improvements

Provision of support for Part 1.2 of the Project, including, inter alia: (a) optimize services
provided by MIES; (b) strengthen family accompaniment mechanisms; and (c) expand coverage
and benefits of BDH-V and PMMA.

2.3: Technical Assistance to support sustainability

Provision of support for Part 1.3 of the Project, including, inter alia: (a) design and development
of instruments for the reformulation of the CDH; (b) development of an IT platform for the
registration of economic inclusion services; and (c) design and implementation of a pilot for
strengthening micro-networks and provision of training to improve capacities of micro-
entrepreneurs under the CDH.

2.4: Technical Assistance to support coordination, monitoring and evaluation activities

Provision of support to strengthen the capacity of MIES and SENPLADES for institutional
coordination, strengthening the verification processes, and carrying out impact evaluations for
the Selected Social Safety Net Programs.
SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Section I. Implementation Arrangements

A.

Institutional Arrangements
The Borrower shall:

(a) maintain, throughout Project implementation, a unit within MIES (MIES PIU)
with functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank, and staffed with
adequate fiduciary, administrative and technical personnel as set forth in the
Operational Manual, with the responsibility to implement, monitor and supervise
Parts 1.2., 1.3., 2.2. and 2.3. and partially 2.4. of the Project (including its financial,
procurement and environmental and social aspects);

(b) not later than ninety (90) days after Effective Date, ensure that a procurement and
a financial management specialist are hired to work full time within MIES PIU, all
under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank;

(c) maintain, throughout Project implementation, a unit within SENPLADES
(SENPLADES PIU) with functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank,
and staffed with adequate fiduciary, administrative and technical personnel as set
forth in the Operational Manual, with the responsibility to implement, monitor and
supervise Parts 1.1., 2.1. and partially 2.4. of the Project (including its financial,

- procurement and environmental and social aspects); and

(d) not later than a ninety (90) days after Effective Date, ensure that a procurement
and a financial management specialist are hired to work full time within
SENPLADES PIU, all under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.

Inter-institutional Agreements

To facilitate the carrying out Part 1.1. of the Project, the Borrower, through SENPLADES,
shall enter into agreements with INEC (“Inter-Institutional Agreement”), under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank, which shall include, inter alia, the Borrower, INEC
responsibilities under Part 1.1. of the Project.

To facilitate the carrying out Part 1.2. of the Project, the Borrower, through MIES, shall
enter into an agreement with the selected GAD and NGO (“Inter-Institutional
Agreements”), under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, which shall include,
inter alia, the Borrower and the respective GAD and NGO responsibilities under Part 1.2.
of the Project.

To facilitate the carrying out Part 1.3. of the Project, the Borrower, through MIES, shall
enter into an agreement with BanEcuador (“‘Inter-Institutional Agreement”), under terms
and conditions acceptable to the Bank, which shall include, inter alia, the Borrower and
BanEcuador responsibilities under Part 1.3. of the Project.

The Borrower, through MIES and SENPLADES, shall exercise its rights under the Inter-
Institutional Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Inter-institutional
Agreements or any of its provisions.

Operational Manual

The Borrower shall, through MIES and SENPLADES, carry out the Project in accordance
with the provisions of a manual (the Operational Manual), satisfactory to the Bank, which
shall include, inter alia: (a) the organizational structure of the Project, including the
structure and terms of reference of personnel in charge of the implementation of the Project;
(b) the procedures for the carrying out, monitoring and evaluation of the Project; (c) the
indicators for Project monitoring and evaluation; (d) the description of DLIs and the
criteria, detailed rules and procedures for DLIs implementation and monitoring; (e) the
DLI Verification Protocols; (f) the Project procurement and financial management
requirements and procedures; and (g) the Project’s chart of accounts and internal controls.

Not later than thirty (30) days after Effective Date, the Borrower shall adopt the
Operational Manual in a manner and with contents acceptable to the Bank.

In case of any conflict between the terms of the Operational Manual and those of this
Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.

Environmental and Social Standards

The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
Environmental and Social Standards, in a manner acceptable to the Bank.

Without limitation upon paragraph 1 above, the Borrower shall ensure that the Project is
implemented in accordance with the Environmental and Social Commitment Plan
(“ESCP”), in a manner acceptable to the Bank. To this end, the Borrower shall ensure that:

(a) the measures and actions specified in the ESCP are implemented with due
diligence and efficiency, and as further specified in the ESCP;

(b) sufficient funds are available to cover the costs of implementing the ESCP;

(c) policies, procedures and qualified staff are maintained to enable it to implement
the ESCP, as further specified in the ESCP; and

(d) the ESCP or any provision thereof, is not amended, revised or waived, except as
the Bank shall otherwise agree in writing and the Borrower has, thereafter,
disclosed the revised ESCP.
In case of any inconsistencies between the ESCP and the provisions of this Agreement, the
provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.

The Borrower shall:

(a) take all measures necessary on its part to collect, compile, and furnish to the Bank
through regular reports, with the frequency specified in the ESCP, and promptly
in a separate report or reports, if so requested by the Bank, information on the
status of compliance with the ESCP [and the management tools and instruments
referred to therein], all such reports in form and substance acceptable to the Bank,
setting out, inter alia: (i) the status of implementation of the ESCP; (ii).conditions,
if any, which interfere or threaten to interfere with the implementation of the
ESCP; and (iii) corrective and preventive measures taken or required to be taken
to address such conditions; and

(b) promptly notify the Bank of any incident or accident related to or having an impact
on the Project which has, or is likely to have, a significant adverse effect on the
environment, the affected communities, the public or workers, in accordance with
the ESCP, the management tools and instruments referenced therein and the
Environmental and Social Standards.

The Borrower shall maintain and publicize the availability of a grievance mechanism, in
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, to hear and determine fairly and in good faith
all complaints raised in relation to the Project and take all measures necessary to implement
the determinations made by such mechanism in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.

Section II. Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

ts

The Borrower, through MIES, shall furnish to the Bank each Project Report not later than
forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar semester, covering the calendar semester.

The Borrower, through MIES, shall not later than ninety (90) days after Effective Date,
select and contract an entity or, independent from the Borrower (Independent Technical
Review Entity) with experience and qualifications acceptable to the Bank, and in
accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank. The Independent Technical
Review Entity shall be responsible for the carrying out of technical audits of the Project at
the end of each semester, particularly focused on the achievement of the DLIs.

The Borrower, through SENPLADES, shall not later than ninety (90) days after Effective
Date, select and contract an entity or, independent from the Borrower (Independent
Technical Review Entity) with experience and qualifications acceptable to the Bank, and
in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank. The Independent Technical
Review Entity shall be responsible for the carrying out of technical audits of the Project at
the end of each semester, particularly focused on the achievement of the DLIs.
Section III. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. General

Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and in
accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the Borrower may
withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to finance Eligible Expenditures in the amount allocated
and, if applicable, up to the percentage set forth against each Category of the following
table:

Amount of the Loan
Allocated
expressed in USD

   
   
   
  

   

   
     
   

Category Percentage of Expenditures
to be financed
exclusive of Taxes
100% of the amount of the
Loan allocated to each DLI,
subject to the provisions of
Part B of this Section
100% of the amount of the

Loan allocated to each DLI,

61,200,000
137,680,000
subject to the provisions of
Part B of this Section
100% of the amount of the
129,320,000 Loan allocated to each DLI,
subject to the provisions of
Part B of this Section
17,050,000 100%

4,750,000 100%

  
 
  
   

   

    

   

(1) Eligible Expenditure
Programs under Part 1.1. of
the Project

      
     
  

   
  

        

   

   

(2) Eligible Expenditure
Programs under Part 1.2. of
the Project

   
 

  
 

  
 
       

   
  

  
   

     

(3) Eligible Expenditure
Programs under Part 1.3. of
the Project

    

      
    

  
   
    
    

   

(4) Goods, non-consulting
services, consulting services
and Operating Costs under
Part 2 for MIES
(5) Goods, non-consulting
services, consulting services
and Operating Costs under
Part 2 for SENPLADES

TOTAL AMOUNT 350,000,000

B. Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

 
    
 
   

   
   
 

 

   

  
 

  
 

 
 

l. Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A above, no withdrawal shall be made:

(a) for payments made prior to the Signature Date, except that withdrawals up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed $70,000,000 may be made for payments made
twelve (12) months prior to this date, but on or after June 1, 2018, for Eligible
Expenditures under Category (1), (2), (4) and (5), unless: (i) the Borrower has
furnished evidence, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, of EEPs
incurred, as presented in the corresponding EEPs Spending Report; and (ii) the
Bank has determined, on the basis of the evidence furnished by the Borrower, as set
forth in the Verification Protocols, that the DLIs have been satisfactorily achieved,
as further elaborated in the Operational Manual and in the Disbursement and
Financial Information Letter;
3.

(b)

(c)

for payments under Category 3, unless the Borrower has formally created the
necessary legal, institutional and implementation arrangements to reformulate
CDH as an investment program (Proyecto de Inversion) and included such
arrangement in the Operational Manual;

for payments made under Categories (1), (2) and (3) unless: (i) the Borrower has
furnished evidence, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, of EEPs
incurred, as presented in the corresponding EEPs Spending Report; and (ii) the
Bank has determined, on the basis of the evidence furnished by the Borrower, as set
forth in the Verification Protocols, that the DLIs have been satisfactorily achieved,
as further elaborated in the Operational Manual and in the Disbursement and
Financial Information Letter.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs B.1(c) of this Section, if the Bank is not
satisfied that a DLI under Categories (1), (2) and (3) has been achieved, or partially
achieved, the Bank may at any time, and by notice to the Borrower decide, in its sole
discretion, to:

(a)

(b)

In respect of Scalable DLIs:

(i) authorize the withdrawal of a reduced amount of the unwithdrawn
proceeds of the Loan allocated to the Scalable DLI which, in the opinion
of the Bank, corresponds to the degree of achievement of said Scalable
DLI calculated as set forth in the Verification Protocols;

(ii) authorize that the unwithdrawn amount corresponding to the portion of the
allocated amount not disbursed due to partial achievement of any Scalable
DLI be carried forward to the immediately subsequent withdrawal,
pending further achievement of the respective Scalable DLI; or

(111) cancel all or a portion of the proceeds of the Loan then allocated to said
Scalable DLI.

In respect of any DLI which is not a Scalable DLI:

(i) withhold the unwithdrawn proceeds of the Loan then allocated to said DLI
until the Bank is satisfied that said DLI has been fully achieved; or

(ii) (A) at the Borrower’s request, and providing there is a justification
acceptable to the Bank, reallocate all or a portion of the proceeds of the
Loan then allocated to said DLI to any other DLI; (B) adjust or replace
said DLI for another DLI; or (C) cancel all or a portion of the proceeds of
the Loan then allocated to said DLI. .

The Closing Date is December 30, 2022.
SCHEDULE 3

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage of the
total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date (“Installment Share”).

Level Principal Rep ents
Installment Share
On each March 15 and September 15
Beginning March 15, 2029 2.44%
through September 15, 2048

On March 15, 2049

       

 
 
     
 

  

2.40 %

    
SCHEDULE 4
Disbursement -Linked Indicators

  

DLI |

 
     
 

Executive Decree creating the
institutional framework to operate the
Social Registry, approved.

(Value: US$20.4 M)

DLI 2 DLI8
At least 1.2 =

million households, of which 360,000 | At least 2.4 million households, of
are classified dl to d3 by the 2018 which 720,000 are classified dl to

Social Registry Index, included in a d3 by the 2018 Social Registry

validated database. Index, included in a validated

| database.
(Value:US$ 24.55) (Value: US$ 16.25 M)

 
     

224,753 households

  

DLI3 |

Operational Manual of ‘Misién
Ternura’ approved.

(Value: US$6.1 M)
DLI 4

    
    
   
 

   
   
   
  
  

  
   
   
  

DLI 9

   
   
   
    

      
     
  
 
  
     
  
  
       

        

      
     
      

¥ Psa eee i PAINS OS i ERE ee ee SEE Saree Bae eas = % Ae an
: : ; Ee - : “
Fi G 7 ’ Nie 2 > pas
"is. « ‘ " 7 es bas tau _ x Foie bgt i 4 <

4,589 children under 3 years old from 36,806 children under 3 years old | 61,805 children under 3 years
4,306 children extreme poor households have access from extreme poor households old from extreme poor
to BDH-V and early childhood have access to BDH-V and early households have access to
services. childhood services. BDH-V and early childhood
alue: US$ 20
es ” (Value: USS 36.05 M)
DLI5

Operational Manual of “Mis Mejores

Afios” approved.

alue: US$ 0.83

12.279 elderly persons from 20.279 elderly persons from
397 elderly extreme poor households receive | Xtreme poor households receive
PMMA and have access to care PMMA and have access to care
services. services.
(Value:US$3.81 M) (Value: USD 6.43)
DLI 6
Operational Manual of BDH and BDH-
V exit strategy is approved.
(Value: US$5 M)
. DLI7 DLI 11
54,663 of poor households enrolled in 106,201 of non-poor households
0 households a twenty-four months package CDH enrolled in a twelve months
program. package of CDH program.
(Value: US$60.6M) (Value: US$63.72M)

 

= aa se oie nae
He, piso! Sen ees Pee Ee Seater sie ‘ eee %, © ze Tee “ay a ae eee
Sims ess eae PSE Met Sars ae aero hase ce sie 3 SS Se : Bez s : @ aS ae ane ts
APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

l.

‘““Accompaniment Mechanisms” means the program that seeks to strengthen the family
nucleus, improve their relationship within and in the community, support access to services
within the social protection floor (health, education, inclusion, housing) and develop
capacities and opportunities for autonomy and sustainable exit from poverty.

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and Corruption
in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants’, dated October 15, 2006
and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.

“Approved Budget Lines” means the following budget lines reflected in the Borrower’s
Clasificador Presupuestario de Ingresos y Gastos del Sector Publico as approved by the
Ministry of Economy and Finance, and the equivalent budget lines and groups approved
for the following years of Project implementation:

(a) Part 1.1. of the Project: budget groups: 71 (Gastos en Personal para Inversion),
73 (Bienes y Servicios para Inversion), 77 (Otros Egresos de Inversion), 78
(Transferencias y Donaciones para Inversion), and 84 (Bienes de Larga
Duracion);

(b) Part 1.2. of the Project: budget groups: 78 (Transferencias y Donaciones para
Inversion), 78 (Transferencias y Donaciones para Inversion); 71 (Gastos en
Personal para Inversion), and 73 (Bienes y Servicios para Inversion);

(c) Part 1.3. of the Project: budget groups: 780106 (Transferencias y Donaciones a
Entidades Financieras Publicas).

““BanEcuador’ means the Borrower’s public bank, created by Executive Decree No. 677 of
May 13, 2015, to provide innovative and effective financial products and services that are
socially and financially sustainable and contribute to the inclusion and improvement of the
quality of life of small and medium sized urban and rural producers and to strengthen
associativity.

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section III.A of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.

“Disbursement-Linked Indicators” or “DLIs” means the set of indicators set forth in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and for which the operational definitions and respective
verification mechanisms are included in the Verification Protocols and in the Operational
Manual.

““EEPs Spending Report” means the report prepared by the Borrower, through MIES and
SENPLADES, in accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter and
set forth in the Operational Manual, on the spending status of the EEPs in relation to the
Approved Budget Lines.
10.

si

12.

13.

“Eligible Beneficiaries” means the households which are eligible for each of the Selected
Social Safety Net Programs, according to the criteria defined in the Operational Manual.

“Eligible Expenditure Programs” or “EEPs” means a set of defined expenditures,
acceptable to the Bank, within the Approved Budget Lines, which are related to: (i) staff
that works for the Social Registry, consulting services, non-consulting services, operating
costs, insurance, transfers to service providers (universities or others) and equipment and
software licenses, implemented by SENPLADES in coordination with MIES and INEC
under Part 1.1. of the Project; (ii) staff that works for Mis Mejores Anos and Mision Ternura
programs, consulting services, non-consulting services and operating costs and transfers to
GADs and NGOs for the provision of services under Part 1.2. of the Project; and (iii)
transfers to BanEcuador for the provision of cash-transfers under Part 1.3. of the Project,
as further described in the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter and in the
Operational Manual (and these expenditures constitute a subset of the Eligible
Expenditures defined in the General Conditions).

“Environmental and Social Commitment Plan” or the acronym “ESCP” means the
Borrower’s environmental and social commitment plan, acceptable to the Bank, dated
February 28, 2019, which sets out a summary of the material measures and actions to
address the potential environmental and social risks and impacts of the Project, including
the timing of the actions and measures, institutional, staffing, training, monitoring and
reporting arrangements, and any instruments to be prepared thereunder, and any annexes
or schedules to such plan as the ESCP may be revised from time to time, with prior written
agreement of the Bank.

“Environmental and Social Standards” means, collectively: (i) “Environmental and Social
Standard 1: Assessment and Management of Environmental and Social Risks and
Impacts”; (ii) “Environmental and Social Standard 2: Labor and Working Conditions”; (iii)
“Environmental and Social Standard 3: Resource Efficiency and Pollution Prevention and
Management”; (iv) “Environmental and Social Standard 4: Community Health and
Safety”; (v) “Environmental and Social Standard 5: Land Acquisition, Restrictions on Land
Use and Involuntary Resettlement”; (vi) “Environmental and Social Standard 6:
Biodiversity Conservation and Sustainable Management of Living Natural Resources”;
(vii) “Environmental and Social Standard 7: Indigenous Peoples/Sub-Saharan Historically
Underserved Traditional Local Communities”; (viii) “Environmental and Social Standard
8: Cultural Heritage”; (ix) “Environmental and Social Standard 9: Financial
Intermediaries”; (x) “Environmental and Social Standard 10: Stakeholder Engagement and
Information Disclosure”; effective on October 1, 2018, as published by the Bank at
https://www.worldbank.org/en/projects-operations/environmental-and social-framework.

“GAD” means the Borrower’s Decentralized Autonomous Governments which have
political, administrative and financial autonomy at regional, provincial, country or parish
levels, and are governed by the'principles of solidarity, subsidiarity, equity, interterritorial,
integration and citizen participation.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project Financing”, dated December
14, 2018.
14.
15.
16.
i
18.

19.

20.

21.

oes

23.

24.

pas

“Independent Technical Review Entity” means any of the entities referred to in Section
II.2 and 3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“INEC” means /nstituto Nacional de Estadisticas y Censos, the Borrower’s Institute of
Statistics and Surveys, created by Decree No. 323 dated April 27, 1976.

“Inter-Institutional Agreements” means collectively the agreements referred to in Section
B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“MIES” means Ministerio de Inclusioén Economica y Social, the Borrower’s Ministry of
Economic and Social Inclusion, or any successor satisfactory to the Bank.

““NGO” means social organizations as defined in the Borrower’s Executive Decree No. 193
dated October 23, 2017.

“Operational Manual” means the Borrower’s manual dated February 28, 2019, prepared
by the Borrower, referred to in Section I.C. of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as said manual
may be amended from time to time by the Borrower, with the agreement of the Bank.

“Procurement Regulations” means, for purposes of paragraph 85 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the “World Bank Procurement Regulations for IPF Borrowers”, dated
July 2016, revised November 2017 and August 2018.

“Scalable DLIs” means DLIs 2, 4, 7, 8,.9, 10, 11, 12 and 13, which, in case of non-
achievement, or partial achievement thereof, may be disbursed proportionally to its degree
of achievement and carried forward to a subsequent withdrawal period as set forth in
Section B.2. of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Selected Social Safety Net Programs” means the following Borrower’s social programs
and modalities and as further defined in the Operations Manual: (i) under Part 1.2. of the
Project: (a) Bono de Desarrollo Humano Variable (BDH-V); (b) Pensién para Adultos
Mayores en Extrema Pobreza - Mis Mejores Anos (PMMA); (c) Early childhood services,
including Centros de Desarrollo Infantil - CDI), Creciendo con Nuestros Hijos - CNH)
and Circulos de Cuidado, Recreacion y Aprendizaje - CCRA); (d) Care services for the
elderly, including: Atencién Domiciliaria, Centros Gerontologicos de Atencion Diurna,
Centros Gerontologicos Residenciales and Espacios Activos de Revitalizacion,
Recreacion, Socializacion y Encuentro; and (ii) under Part 1.3. of the Project: Bono de
Desarrollo Humano (BDH) and Crédito de Desarrollo Humano (CDH).

“SENPLADES” means Secretaria Nacional de Planificacion y Desarrollo, the Borrower’s
National Secretariat of Planning, or any successor which will manage the Social Registry,

Satisfactory to the Bank.

“Signature Date” means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the Bank
signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to “the date of the Loan
Agreement” in the General Conditions.

“Social Registry” means the Borrower’s cadaster of social, economic and demographic
information, registered individually and at family’s level, that allows institutions to identify
26.

27.

their target populations, to better focus efforts towards groups in conditions of poverty,
which is managed by SENPLADES according to the Borrower’s Executive Decree No.
129, dated August 2017.

“SSN” means social safety net.

“Verification Protocols” means the set of protocols setting forth the actions and
mechanisms required for verification of DLIs, agreed with the Bank and included in the
Operational Manual and in the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, as the same
may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank.
