Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

LOAN NUMBER 8988-MX

Loan Agreement

(Mexico Financial Inclusion Development Policy Financing)
between
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between the UNITED MEXICAN STATES
(“Borrower”), represented by its Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico (SHCP), and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(“Bank”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as defined in
the Appendix to this Agreement). The Bank has decided to provide this financing on the
basis, inter alia, of: (i) the actions which the Borrower has already taken under the Program
and which are described in Section I.A of Schedule | to this Agreement; and (ii) the
Borrower’s maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic policy framework.

Whereas the Borrower has informed the Bank that the proceeds of the Loan (as set forth in
the table in Section II of Schedule | of this Agreement, and for the purposes of supporting
the Program), shall be used in conformity with the requirements of the Borrower’s income,
budgetary and federal public debt laws and the terms of this Agreement.

The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01. The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to
and form an integral part of this Agreement.

1.02. Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IT — LOAN

2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of five hundred million
Dollars ($500,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time
through a Currency Conversion (“Loan”).

2.02. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 2.01 (b) of the General Conditions,
the Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program in
accordance with Section II of Schedule | to this Agreement.

2.03. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 (a) of the General Conditions,
the Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower is one quarter of one percent (0.25%)
of the Loan amount.
2.04

2.05.

2.06.

2.07.

2.08.

3.01.

3.02.

i

Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 (b) of the General Conditions,
the Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower is one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.

Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.02 (a) of the General Conditions,
the interest rate payable by the Borrower is the Reference Rate plus the Variable
Spread or such rate as’ may apply following a Conversion; subject to
Section 3.02 (e) of the General Conditions.

The Payment Dates are March | and September | in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.

Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.05 of the General Conditions,
the Borrower shall promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the
provisions of this Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request.

ARTICLE Il — PROGRAM

The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation. To
this end, and further to Section 5.05 of the General Conditions:

(a) the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either
party, exchange views on the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy
framework and the progress achieved in carrying out the Program;

(b) prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower, with the assistance of :
the Development Banking Unit of SHCP, shall furnish to the Bank for its
review and comment, a report on the progress achieved in the
implementation of the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request; and

(c) without limitation upon paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, the
Borrower, with the assistance of Development Banking Unit of SHCP,
shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation that would have the effect
of materially reversing the objectives of the Program or any action taken
under the Program including any action specified in Section I of Schedule
1 to this Agreement.

(a) The Borrower shall enter into a contract (Contratode | Mandato) with
the Financial Agent, satisfactory to the Bank, whereby:
4.01.

4.02.

5.01.

(b)

i

(i) the Financial Agent agrees to act as financial agent of the
Borrower with regard to the Loan; and

(ii) the Borrower shall cooperate fully with the Financial Agent to
ensure that the Financial Agent is able to comply with all of the
Financial Agent’s obligations under the Contrato de Mandato.

The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under
the Contrato de Mandato in such a manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not terminate,
amend, waive or fail to enforce any provision of the Contrato de Mandato.
In case of any conflict between the terms of the Contrato de Mandato and
those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK

The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that a
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a
significant part of it, will be carried out.

The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that the
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a
period of 30 days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the
Borrower.

ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:

(a)
(b)

(c)

the Contrato de Mandato has been duly executed by the parties thereto;

the Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in
carrying out the Program and with the adequacy of the Borrower’s
macroeconomic policy framework; and

the Borrower and the Financial Agent (in a legal opinion satisfactory to
the Bank, issued by the Financial Agent’s counsel acceptable to the Bank),
indicate that the Contrato de Mandato has been duly authorized or ratified
by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and the
Financial Agent and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the
Financial Agent’s in accordance with the Contrato de Mandato’s terms.
+02.

6.01.

6.02.

6.03.

-4-
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the Signature Date.

ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

The Borrower’s Representative is the Titular de la Unidad de Crédito Publico of
SHCP.

For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Borrower’s
address is:

Secretaria de Hacienda y Crédito Publico
Unidad de Asuntos Internacionales de Hacienda
Insurgentes Sur 1971

Torre III, tercer piso

Colonia Guadalupe Inn

01020 México, D.F.; and

(b) the Borrower’s Electronic Address is:

Facsimile: - E-mail:

011-52-55-3688-1216 uaih_shcp@hacienda.gob.mx

For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Bank’s address
is:

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America; and

(b) the Bank’s Electronic Address is:

Telex: Facsimile: E-mail:
248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391 psaavedra@worldbank.org

64145(MCI)
AGREED as of the Signature Date. |

UNITED MEXICAN STATES

By

 

Authoriz¢d Representative

/,
Name: (JH{][ WM A AY

y y

Tite: {CZ AF WO! NI
Date: |
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR

RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By

 

Name: Dallo Kaoue Apa

Title: OM vZk

Date: l Ol
Section I.

A.

sa

SCHEDULE 1

Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds

Actions under the Program

The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following:

l.

The Borrower has developed a new electronic payment platform (“CoDi”)
and issued its supporting regulations, to provide safe and efficient person-
to-business payments to better reach micro, small and e-commerce
merchants, as evidenced by Banco de Mexico’s Circular No. 8/2019, duly
published in the Official Gazette dated May 20, 2019.

The Borrower has issued regulations to create interbank mechanisms that
facilitate individuals to use their payroll account as the designated source
of repayment for loans with any bank in the system, to foster a broader
access to credit under better terms and conditions, as evidenced by Banco
de Mexico’s Circular 15/2018, duly published in the Official Gazette dated
October 29, 2018.

The Borrower has enacted the Law to Regulate Financial Technology
Institutions, to mandate the establishment and regulate the operation of
ITFs and technology-driven business models, products, and services to
promote innovation, competition, and inclusion in the financial sector.

The Borrower has issued regulations regarding the licensing and operation
of ITFs, as evidenced by CNBV’s General Rules for ITFs and Banco de
Mexico’s Circular No. 12/2018, duly published in the Official Gazette
dated September 10, 2018 and March 25, 2019, respectively.

The Borrower has issued regulations for the operation of Regulatory
Sandboxes, including eligibility criteria, oversight, and interinstitutional
coordination, as evidenced by: (i) Banco de Mexico’s Circular No. 5/2019;
and (ii) General Rules for Regulatory Sandboxes issued by SHCP, CNBV,
CNSF and CONSAR, published in the Official Gazette dated March 8,
2019, March 11, 2019, March 19, 2019, March 26, 2019 and March 8,
2019, respectively.

The Borrower has submitted to its Legislature, for approval thereof, a bill
of law to improve the BANCO DEL BIENESTAR’s mandate in
supporting financial inclusion and its role in the distribution of social
benefits to the poorest population, as evidenced by the Senate Gazette No.
114, Volume I, dated April 2, 2019.
ahs

Section II. Availability of Loan Proceeds

A.

General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank
may specify by notice to the Borrower.

Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan (except for amounts required to pay the
Front-end Fee) is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche, from which the

Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds. The allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below:

Allioeastand Amount of the Loan
(expressed in Dollars)
(1) Single Withdrawal Tranche 498,750,000
(2) Front-end Fee 1,250,000

(3) Amount due pursuant to Section
4.05 (c) of the General Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT $500,000,000

Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions

 
       
    

  

No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank
is satisfied: (i) with the Program being carried out by the Borrower; and (ti) with
the adequacy of the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework.

Closing Date. The Closing Date is June 30, 2020.
-g-
SCHEDULE 2

Commitment-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule — Level Repayment

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage
of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date
(“Installment Share”).

Level Principal Repayments

Principal Payment Date Installment Share

On each March | and September |
5.56%

’ Beginning March 1, 2025
through March 1, 2033

On September |, 2033 5.480%

         
  
   

       
 
APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

11.

“BANCO DEL BIENESTAR” means Banco del Bienestar, Sociedad Nacional de
Crédito, Institucién de Banca de Desarrollo, established pursuant to the
Borrower’s law.duly published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette, dated June 19,
2019 that reforms the organic Law of Banco del Ahorro Nacional y Servicios
Financieros, Sociedad Nacional de Crédito, Institucién de Banca de Desarrollo
dated June 1,2001.

“CNBV” means Comisién Nacional Bancaria y de Valores, the Borrower’s
National Banking and Securities Commission.

““CNSF” means Comision Nacional de Seguros y Fianzas, the Borrower’s National
Commission of Insurance and Guarantees.

“CoDi” mean Cobro Digital, an electronic platform for payments.

“CONSAR” means Comision Nacional del Sistema de Ahorro para el Retiro, the
Borrower’s National Commission of Savings for Pensions.

“Contrato de Mandato” means the contract referred to in Section 3.02 (a) of this
Agreement.

“Financial Agent” means: (i) BANCO DEL BIENESTAR; or (ii) any other
development bank of the Borrower acceptable to the Bank.

“Financial Technology Institutions” or “ITFs” means financial technology
institutions, including: (a) crowdfunding institutions; and (b) electronic payment
funds institutions, as further defined in the Fintech Law.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Development Policy
Financing”, dated December 14, 2018.

“Law to Regulate Financial Technology Institutions” or “Fintech Law” means the
Borrower’s Law to Regulate Financial Technology Institutions, published in the
Official Gazette dated March 9, 2018.

“Program” means the program of objectives, policies, and actions set forth or
referred to in the letter dated April 30, 2019 from the Borrower to the Bank
declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and
requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its execution
12.

-10-

and comprising actions taken, including those set forth in Section I of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, and actions to be taken consistent with the program’s
objectives.

“Regulatory Sandboxes” means Modelos Novedosos, a model for the provision of
financial services, which requires a temporary authorization for the use of tools or
technological means with modalities different from those existing in the market at
the moment in which the temporary authorization is granted, as further defined in
the Fintech Law.

“SHCP” means Secretaria de Hacienda y Crédito Publico, the Borrower’s
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit.

“Signature Date” means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the
Bank signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to “the
date of the Loan Agreement” in the General Conditions.

“Single Withdrawal Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the
category entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of
Section II of Schedule | to this Agreement.
