Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

 

LOAN NUMBER 8925-MA

Loan Agreement

(Financial Inclusion and Digital Economy Development Policy Loan)
between
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
LOAN NUMBER 8925-MA

LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between KINGDOM OF MOROCCO (“Borrower’’)
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for
the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this
Agreement). The Bank has decided to provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (i) the
actions which the Borrower has already taken under the Program and which are described in Section
I of Schedule | to this Agreement; and (ii) the Borrower’s maintenance of an adequate
macroeconomic policy framework. The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows:

1.01.

LA.

201,

2.02.

2.04.

le

2.06.

2.07.

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to and form
part of this Agreement.

Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.

ARTICLE II — LOAN

The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of six hundred eleven million three
hundred thousand Euro (EUR 611,300,000), as such amount may be converted from time
to time through a Currency Conversion (“Loan”).

The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.

The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.

The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Fixe Spread or such rate as may apply
following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General Conditions.

The Borrower elects to apply the Automatic Rate Fixing Conversion to the Loan.
Accordingly, without limitation upon the provisions of Article IV of the General
Conditions and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in accordance with
the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate basis applicable to the
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during each Interest Period shall be
converted from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate for the full maturity of such amount
in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the
Conversion Guidelines.

The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
2.08.

4.01.

4.02.

aL.

aes

6.01.

Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.05 of the General Conditions, the
Borrower shall promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of
this Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request.

ARTICLE III — PROGRAM

The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation. To this end,
and further to Section 5.05 of the General Conditions:

(a) the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either party,
exchange views on the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework and the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program; and

(b) without limitation upon paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall promptly
inform the Bank of any situation that would have the effect of materially reversing
the objectives of the Program or any action taken under the Program including any
action specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK

The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that a situation has
arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will be
carried out.

The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that the event

specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of sixty

(60) days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that the Bank

is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the Program and

with the adequacy of the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework.

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the Signature Date.
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Economy and Finance.
6.02. For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) the Borrower’s address is:

Ministére de |’Economie et des Finances
Quartier Administratif
Avenue Mohammed V
Rabat
Kingdom of Morocco; and
(b) the Borrower’s Electronic Address is:

Cable: Facsimile:

MINFIN 212-537-76-40-8 1/2 12-537-67-75-32
6.03. For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:

(a) the Bank’s address is:

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America; and
(b) the Bank’s Electronic Address is:

Telex: Facsimile:

248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391

64145(MCI)

 
AGREED as of the Signature Date.

KINGDOM OF MOROC

 

Name: Mr. Mohamed Benchaaboun
Title: Minister of Economy and Finance

Date: March 14, 2019

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By

Authorized Representative

Name: Ms. Marie Francoise Marie-Nelly
Title: Country Director

Maghreb Department

Regional Middle East and North Africa Office

Date: March 14, 2019
SCHEDULE 1

Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds

Section I. Actions under the Program

Pillar I.

1.

U2

Actions Taken Under the Program. The actions taken by the Borrower under the
Program include the following:

Enhancing Financial Inclusion for Individuals and MSMEs

To allow microfinance institutions to expand their portfolio and respond to credit demand
of MSME, the Council of Government has approved and submitted to Parliament on
November 13, 2018, Draft Law No. 85-18 amending Law No. 18-97 on Microcredit
authorizing an increase in the maximum lending size from MADS50,000 to MAD150,000.

To increase access to finance for small farmers, the Ministry of Economy and Finance and
the Crédit Agricole du Maroc have raised the ceiling of loans guaranteed to small farmers
by the Fonds the Stabilisation Prudentielle from MAD 100,000 to MAD 200,000, pursuant
to an amendment to the Convention establishing the Fonds de Stabilisation Prudentielle
“FSP.” dated November 2, 2018.

To enhance oversight of gender gaps in financial inclusion of women and female-owned
enterprises, have gender data in the credit information system, and support modernization
of Morocco’s credit information system, the BAM _ has issued Notice No.
L/BKAM/2018/9632 dated December 20, 2018, making it mandatory for payment
companies to report gender desegregated data.

To improve health insurance coverage, the Borrower has adopted on September 13, 2018
and published in the Official Gazette dated January 21, 2019, Decrees No. 2.18.622,
2.18.623 and 2.18.624 implementing Law No. 98-15 to expand basic compulsory health
insurance coverage to professionals, self-employed individuals, and non-salary
individuals.

To develop Islamic Finance (Finance Participative): (a) the Borrower has enacted Law
No. 69-17 amending and supplementing Law No. 33-06 related to the issuance of Sukuk
certificates published in the Official Gazette No. 6667 dated April 23, 2018; and (b) the
Council of Government has approved and submitted to Parliament on October 24, 2018,
Draft Law No. 87-18 amending and supplementing Law No. 17-99 on the Insurance Code
relating to Takaful insurance.

Pillar II. Supporting the Development of Digital Platforms and Digital Infrastructure

6.

To promote the development of mobile payments, the BAM has adopted Decision No.
392/W/2018 on mobile payments, dated November 12, 2018 setting the conditions and
modalities of mobile payments in Morocco, including interoperability of M-wallets.

In order to create an environment conducive to the deployment of telecommunications
infrastructure and strengthen competition in the fiber access market, the ANRT has
adopted Decision No. ANRT/DG/No.12/18 dated July 27, 2018 approving a wholesale
offer to access passive infrastructure of Maroc Telecom (Offre Genie Civile).

8. To promote private investment in digital infrastructure in local communities (Collectivités
Térritoriales) including in remote areas, the Minister of Interior has adopted Circular No.
F/2166 dated June 14, 2018 establishing a uniform ceiling for fees to be paid by investors
to deploy their infrastructure in the municipal public domain.

Pillar III. Enhancing Support to Digital Entrepreneurs

9. To streamline and facilitate enterprise creation by electronic means, the Borrower has
enacted Law No. 87-17 amending and supplementing Law No. 13-99 establishing the
OMPIC, published in the Official Gazette No. 6722 dated November 1, 2018; and the
Council of Government has approved and submitted to Parliament on March 19, 2018: (i)
Draft Law No. 89-17 amending and supplementing Law No. 15-95 on the Commercial
Code for the establishment of a centralized electronic commerce register and decentralized
electronic commerce registries; and (ii) Draft Law No. 88-17 on the electronic creation
and support to enterprises.

10. To promote the development of a new asset class to bridge the early stage finance gap of
digital entrepreneurs, the Fonds Innov Invest’s Technical Committee has adopted the
technical specifications (Cahier de Charge) dated December 26, 2018, outlining eligibility
criteria for business angels to receive financing from the Caisse Centrale de Garantie.

Section II. Availability of Loan Proceeds

A. General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank may specify by
notice to the Borrower.

B. Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan (except for amounts required to pay the Front-
end Fee) is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche, from which the Borrower may make
withdrawals of the Loan proceeds. The allocation of the amounts of the Loan to this end is
set out in the table below:
C.

       
       
   

    

Allocations Amount of the Loan
Allocated

expressed in EUR

(1) Single Withdrawal 609,771,750
Tranche
(2) Front-end Fee 1,528,250

(3) Amount due pursuant
to Section 4.05 (c) of
the General
Conditions

TOTAL AMOUNT 611,300,000

Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions.

   

      
 
   
  

  

       

No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank is satisfied: (a)
with the Program being carried out by the Borrower; and (b) with the adequacy of the Borrower’ s
macroeconomic policy framework.

D.

l.

Uo

Audit. Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall:

have the account referred to in Section 2.03 (a) of the General Conditions audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with consistently applied
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank;

furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than four (4) months after
the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the report of such audit, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, and make such report
publicly available in a timely fashion and in a manner acceptable to the Bank; and

furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the account referred to in Section

2.03 (a) of the General Conditions and their audit as the Bank shall reasonably request.

Closing Date. The Closing Date is December 31, 2020.
 

   
   
 
 

SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage of the
total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date (“Installment Share”).

Principal Payment Date Installment Share

On each April 15 and October 15

    
 

Beginning April 15, 2024

  
 

through October 15, 2043

 
APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

Li;

 

“ANRT” means the Borrower’s Agence Nationale de  Réglementation des
Télécommunications.

“BAM” means Bank Al-Maghrib, the Borrower’s Central Bank.

“Council of Government” means the Borrower’s Conseil du Gouvernement.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Development Policy Financing”, dated December
14, 2018.

“MAD” means the Moroccan Dirham, the lawful currency of the Borrower.

“MSME” means Micro, Small and Medium Size Enterprises.

‘‘M-wallets” means mobile-wallets.

“Signature Date” means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the Bank

signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to “the date of the Loan
Agreement” in the General Conditions.

“Single Withdrawal Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category
entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of
Schedule | to this Agreement.

 
