Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

LOAN NUMBER 8966- BR

OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

Loan Agreement

(Mato Grosso Fiscal Adjustment and Environmental Sustainability
Development Policy Loan -
Empréstimo de Politica de Desenvolvimento com Sustentabilidade Fiscal e Ambiental no Estado de
Mato Grosso)

between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and

STATE OF MATO GROSSO

 
 

LOAN NUMBER 8966- BR
LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) and STATE OF MATO GROSSO
(“Borrower”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as defined in the
Appendix to this Agreement).

WHEREAS (A) the Bank has decided to provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the
actions which the Borrower has already taken under the Program and which are described in Section
I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; (b) the Guarantor’s maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic
policy framework; and (c) the Borrower’s maintenance of: (i) an appropriate expenditure program;
(ii) sustainable debt; and (ii1) appropriate fiscal arrangements with the Guarantor.

Whereas (B) the Borrower has informed the Bank that, upon deposit by the Bank of the proceeds
of the Loan (on the terms set forth in Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, for purposes of
supporting the Program and in compliance with Article 1 paragraph | of its Law No. 10.862 dated
April 4, 2019) into an account to be designated by the Borrower, the Borrower will regain fiscal
sustainability and increase institutional capacity for sustainable agriculture, forest conservation and
climate change mitigation.

The Bank and the Borrower therefore hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01. The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to and form
part of this Agreement.

1.02. Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.

ARTICLE If — LOAN

2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of two hundred fifty million Dollars
(USD250,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion (“Loan’’).

2.02. The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.

2.03. The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.

2.04. The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Variable Spread or such rate as may apply
following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General Conditions. In addition,
the Borrower shall pay to the Bank a transaction fee at a rate of 0.02 percent per annum.
The transaction fee is expressed as a percentage per annum on the outstanding Loan amount
and is payable monthly at each Payment Date.
2.05.

2.06.

2.07.

2.08.

2.09.

2.10.

The Payment Dates are the 15th of each calendar month.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.

Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.05 of the General Conditions, the
Borrower shall promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of
this Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request.

Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of the General Conditions, the
Borrower may request a Conversion of the terms of the Loan, in each case with the prior
non-objection of the Guarantor, through its Secretariat of the National Treasury of the
Guarantor’s Ministry of Economy.

(a) If on any given day, the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit (as
said terms are defined in sub-paragraphs (b)(ii) and (b)(iii) of this Section), the
Borrower shall pay to the Bank a surcharge at the rate of one half of one percent
(0.5%) per annum of the Allocated Excess Exposure Amount (as defined in sub-
paragraph (b)(i) of this Section) for each said day (“Exposure Surcharge”). The
Exposure Surcharge (if any) shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each
Payment Date.

(b) For purposes of this Section the following terms have the meanings set forth below:

(1) ‘Allocated Excess Exposure Amount” means for each day during which
the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit, the product of:
(A) the total amount of said excess; and (B) the ratio of all (or, if the Bank
so determines), a portion of the Loan to the aggregate amount of all (or the
equivalent portions) of the loans made by the Bank to the Borrower, the
Guarantor and to other borrowers guaranteed by the Guarantor that are
also subject to an exposure surcharge, as said excess and ratio are
reasonably determined from time to time by the Bank.

(ii) “Standard Exposure Limit” means the standard limit on the Bank’s
financial exposure to the Guarantor which, if exceeded, would subject the
Loan to the Exposure Surcharge, as determined from time to time by the
Bank.

(iii) | “Total Exposure” means for any given day, the Bank’s total financial
exposure to the Guarantor, as reasonably determined by the Bank.

The Borrower agrees that the modifications to the Reference Rate and the Variable Spread
requested by the Borrower and reflected in Section II of the Appendix hereto shall be
treated as a Conversion and the relevant provisions of the General Conditions, including,
without limitation, Section 3.04(c) and 4.01(f) of the General Conditions, shall apply.

 
 

SO1:

4.01.

4.02.

ARTICLE Ill — PROGRAM

The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation. To this
end, and further to Section 5.05 of the General Conditions:

(a)

(b)

(c)

the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either party,
exchange views on: (i) the Borrower’s maintenance of, an appropriate expenditure
program; sustainable debt; and appropriate fiscal arrangements with the Guarantor,
as referred to in the introductory paragraph of this Agreement; (ii) the progress
achieved in carrying out the Program and the actions specified in Section I of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (iii) any situation that could affect said
maintenance and progress under subparagraphs (1) and (11) above;

prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for
its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request; and

without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section,
the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of and exchange views with the Bank
on any situation that would have the effect of materially: (i) impairing the
Borrower’s ability to maintain an appropriate expenditure program, sustainable
debt and/or fiscal arrangements with the Guarantor; or (11) reversing the objectives
of the Program or any action taken under the Program including any action
specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK

The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:

(a)

(b)

A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a
significant part of it, will be carried out.

An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted by the Borrower to reverse
any action or policy under the Program including any action listed in Section I of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that any event
specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing
for a period of 60 days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower.

ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:

(a)

The Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out
the Program and with the adequacy of the Guarantor’s macroeconomic policy
framework.
(b) That the Bank is satisfied with the Borrower’s maintenance of an appropriate
expenditure program, sustainable debt and appropriate fiscal arrangements with
the Guarantor,

5.02. The Effectiveness Deadline is the date 90 (ninety) days after the Signature Date.
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

6.01. The Borrower’s Representative is its Governor.

6.02. For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Borrower’s address is:

Secretaria de Estado de Fazenda - SEFAZ

Av. Historiador Rubens de Mendonca, 3.415 —

Centro Politico Administrativo

Cuiaba, MT 78049-936Brazil; and

(b) the Borrower’s Electronic Address is:

E-mail: ege.divida@sefaz.mt.gov.br or gsf@sefaz.mt.gov.br

6.03. For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Bank’s address is:

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development

1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America; and

(b) the Bank’s Electronic Address is:

Telex: Facsimile: E-mail:
248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391 panoscasero@worldbank.org
64145(MCI)

AGREED as of the Signature Date.

 
 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By : S\ovrew / eae :

Authorized Representative

Name: Valowar Aus Canon)

Title: C garantryy DivrecLoy
Date:_Gopden.bon (oy 204%
SCHEDULE 1

Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds

Section I. Actions Taken Under the Program

The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following:

Pillar A - Supporting the Borrower’s Efforts to Regain Fiscal Sustainability

i;

The Borrower has enacted legislation that clarifies and tightens personnel spending limits
and sets targets for current savings, as evidenced by the adoption and publication of the
Borrower’s fiscal responsibility law (Law No 614/2019) dated February 5, 2019 as
published on the Borrower’s official gazette on February 5, 2019 and published on the

following website: http://www5.sefaz.mt.gov.br/acoes-mt-bird.

The Borrower has enacted legislation that conditions annual adjustments of the Borrower’s
civil servants’ salaries on the Borrower’s fiscal capacity, as evidenced by the adoption and
publication of the Borrower’s Law No 10.819/2019 dated January 28, 2019 as published
on the Borrower’s official gazette on January 28, 2019 and published on the following

website: http://www5.sefaz.mt.gov.br/acoes-mt-bird.

The Borrower has enacted legislation that strengthens the governance of MTPREV by
transferring the authority to approve actuarial studies and propose financing plans, as
evidenced by the adoption and publication of the Borrower’s Law No 613/2019 dated
January 28, 2019 as published on the Borrower’s official gazette on January 28, 2019 and
published on the following website: http://www5.sefaz.mt.gov.br/acoes-mt-bird.

The Borrower has enacted legislation that establishes its State Fiscal Equilibrium Fund to
increase public revenues from companies benefitting from tax incentives, as evidenced by
the adoption and publication of the Borrower’s Law No 10.709/2018 dated June 28, 2018
as published on the Borrower’s official gazette on June 28, 2018 and published on the

following website: http://www5.sefaz.mt.gov.br/acoes-mt-bird.

The Borrower has enacted legislation that increases the per-unit levies charged on
agricultural commodities produced in the Borrower’s territory, as evidenced by the
adoption and publication of the Borrower’s Law No 10.818/2019 dated January 28, 2019
as published on the Borrower’s official gazette on January 28, 2019 and published on the

following website: http://www5.sefaz.mt.gov.br/acoes-mt-bird.

Pillar B - Increasing Institutional Capacity for Sustainable Agriculture, Forest Conservation
and Climate Change Mitigation

bs

The Borrower has enacted regulation that improves prevention and control of illegal
deforestation and forest fires through remote sensing, early warning and swift response, as
evidenced by the adoption and publication of the Borrower’s Decree No 1490 dated May
15, 2018 as published on the Borrower’s official gazette on May 15, 2018 and published
on the following website: http://www5S.sefaz.mt.gov.br/acoes-mt-bird.

-6-

 
The Borrower has improved the transparency and effectiveness of the Rural Environmental
Registry and of the Program for Environmental Regularization through: (1) the definition
of procedures and oversight for the Rural Environmental Registry and the Program for
Environmental Regularization, as evidenced by the agreement (Termo de Compromisso
Ambiental) signed among the Borrower’s Public Prosecutor, the Borrower’s Secretary for
Environment and the Borrower’s Secretary for Public Security, dated January 25, 2019 as
published on the Borrower’s official gazette on February 12, 2019 and published on the
following website: http://www5.sefaz.mt.gov.br/acoes-mt-bird; and (ii) the definition of
operational procedures for public access to environmental information, as evidenced by the
settlement (Termo de Ajustamento de Conduta) signed between the Borrower’s Public
Prosecutor and the Borrower’s Secretary for Environment, dated November 12, 2018 as
homologated on March 12, 2019, renegotiated on March 21, 2019, published on the
Borrower’s official justice gazette on March 15, 2019, and published on the following

website: http://www5.sefaz.mt.gov.br/acoes-mt-bird.

The Borrower has enacted regulation that strengthens the implementation of its PCI
Strategy and institutional capacity (including by appointing the PCI Institute as the
independent agency to implement its PCI Strategy) in order to improve agricultural
production while protecting its forests, as evidenced by the adoption and publication of the
Borrower’s Decree No 46 dated February 27, 2019 as published on the Borrower’s official
gazette on February 27, 2019 and _ published on the following website:

http://www5.sefaz.mt.gov.br/acoes-mt-bird.

Section II. Availability of Loan Proceeds

A.

 

General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank may specify by
notice to the Borrower.

Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche, from
which the Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds. The allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below:

expressed in USD

Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions.

 
  

 
   

No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless:
(a) the Bank is satisfied with the adequacy of the Guarantor’s macroeconomic policy
framework and the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the

Program;

(b) the Bank is satisfied that the Borrower is maintaining an appropriate expenditure
program, sustainable debt and appropriate fiscal arrangements with the Guarantor; and

es
(c) the Bank has received payment of the Front-end Fee, in accordance with Section 3.01
(a) of the General Conditions and Section 2.02 of this Agreement.

Deposit of Loan Amounts.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 2.03 of the General Conditions:

(a) the Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the first request for
withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter maintain a dedicated account
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank; and

(b) the withdrawal from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into said
dedicated account.

The Borrower, within thirty (30) days after each withdrawal from the Loan Account, shall
report to the Bank: (a) the exact sum received into the account referred to in Section 2.03
(a) of the General Conditions; (b) the record that an equivalent amount has been accounted
for in the Borrower’s budget management systems; and (c) the statement of receipts and
disbursement of the account referred to in Section 2.03 (a) of the General Conditions.

Closing Date. The Closing Date is December 31, 2021. The Bank may grant an extension
of the Closing Date only after the Guarantor’s Ministry of Economy has informed the Bank
that it agrees with such extension.

 
SCHEDULE 2

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage of the
total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date (“Installment Share”).

On each 15 of each calendar month
Beginning September 15, 2019
through December 15, 2038

On January 15, 2039

Installment Share

      
  

   

 
  
 
 

  
   
 

 

0.42918%
0.43024%

 

 
APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

;

10.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Development Policy Financing”, dated December
14, 2018 with the modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.

“Guarantor” means the Federative Republic of Brazil.

“MTPREV” means the Borrower’s pension agency (Mato Grosso Previdéncia),
established and operating in accordance with the Borrower’s Law No. 560 (Lei
Complementar) dated December 31, 2014, or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.

“PCI Institute” means Jnstituto Produzir, Conservar e Incluir, the institute created to
support the Borrower’s public policies related to the PCI Strategy, as established and
Operating pursuant to the Borrower’s Decree No. 46 dated February 27, 2019, or any .
successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.

“PCI Strategy” means the Borrower’s strategy (Estratégia: Produzir, Conservar e Incluir)
to mobilize funds to improve the efficiency of its agricultural production and
environmental protection as established and operating pursuant to the Borrower’s Decree
No. 468 dated March 31, 2016.

“Program” means the program of objectives, policies, and actions set forth or referred to
in the letter dated March 21, 2019 from the Borrower to the Bank declaring the Borrower’s
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in
support of the Program during its execution and comprising actions taken, including those
set forth in Section I of Schedule | to this Agreement, and actions to be taken consistent
with the program’s objectives.

“Program for Environmental Regularization” means the Borrower’s program established
and operating in accordance with the Borrower’s Law No. 592, dated May 26, 2017, or any
successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.

“Rural Environmental Registry” means the Borrower’s rural environmental registry
established and operating in accordance with the Borrower’s Law No. 592, dated May 26,
2017, or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.

“Signature Date” means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the Bank
signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to “the date of the Loan
Agreement” in the General Conditions.

“Single Withdrawal Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category

entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of
Schedule | to this Agreement.

s4h=

 
Lis “State Fiscal Equilibrium Fund” means the Borrower’s fund established and operating in
accordance with the Borrower’s Law No 10.709, dated June 28, 2018, or any successor
thereto acceptable to the Bank.

Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:

l. The term “LIBOR” under definition 66 of the General Conditions is modified to read as
follows:

“66. ‘“LIBOR” means for any Interest Period, the London interbank offered rate for
deposits in the relevant Loan Currency for one-month, expressed as a percentage per
annum, that appears on the Relevant Rate Page as of 11:00 a.m. London time on the
Reference Rate Reset Date for the Interest Period.”

a The term “Reference Rate” under definition 87, sub-paragraph (a) of the General
Conditions is modified to read as follows:

“87. “Reference Rate” means, for any Interest Period:

(a) for USD, JPY and GBP, LIBOR for the relevant Loan Currency. If such rate
does not appear on the Relevant Rate Page, the Bank shall request the principal London
office of each of four major banks to provide a quotation of the rate at which it offers
one-month deposits in the relevant Loan Currency to leading banks in the London
interbank market at approximately 11:00 a.m. London time on the Reference Rate
Reset Date for the Interest Period. If at least two such quotations are provided, the rate
for the Interest Period shall be the arithmetic mean (as determined by the Bank) of the
quotations. If less than two quotations are provided as requested, the rate for the Interest
Period shall be the arithmetic mean (as determined by the Bank) of the rates quoted by
four major banks selected by the Bank in the relevant Financial Center, at
approximately 11:00 a.m. in the Financial Center, on the Reference Rate Reset Date
for the Interest Period for loans in the relevant Loan Currency to leading banks for one
month. If less than two of the banks so selected are quoting such rates, the Reference
Rate for the relevant Loan Currency for the Interest Period shall be equal to the
respective Reference Rate in effect for the Interest Period immediately preceding it;

oie

2 The term “Variable Spread” under definition 101 of the General Conditions is modified
to read as follows:

“101. “Variable Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (a) (1) the Bank’s standard
lending spread for Loans in effect at 12:01 a.m. Washington, D.C. time, one calendar
day prior to the date of the Loan Agreement; (2) minus (or plus) the weighted average
margin, for the Interest Period, below (or above) the Reference Rate for six-month
deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated
by it to fund loans that carry interest at a rate based on the Variable Spread; (3) plus a
Basis Swap Adjustment; and (4) plus a maturity premium, as applicable; as reasonably

Ai

 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum; and (b) in case of
Conversions, the variable spread, as applicable, as determined by the Bank in
accordance with Conversion Guidelines and notified to the Borrower pursuant to
Section 4.01(c).”

A new term “Basis Swap Adjustment” is added as definition 104 to the General
Conditions to read as follows:

“104. “Basis Swap Adjustment” means the adjustment in rate (whether positive or
negative) that results from a basis swap transaction executed by the Bank with respect
to the London inter-bank offered rate for six-month deposits into “LIBOR” as defined
above and subject to Section 3.02(c) of the General Conditions, as reasonably
determined by the Bank at the time of withdrawal of an amount of the Loan.”

ers

 
