Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

 

 

LOAN NUMBER 8922-GA

Loan Agreement

(Second Gabon Fiscal Consolidation and Inclusive Growth
Development Policy Loan)

between
GABONESE REPUBLIC
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

ru 96M o
February LS ‘ 2014

 

 

 
LOAN NUMBER 8922-GA
LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between the GABONESE
REPUBLIC (“Borrower”) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK ~~ FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing
financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The
Bank has decided to provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (i) the actions
which the Borrower has already taken under the Program and which are described in
Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (ii) the Borrower’s maintenance of an
adequate macroeconomic policy framework. The Borrower and the Bank therefore
hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01. The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to
and form part of this Agreement.

1.02. Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.

ARTICLE II — LOAN

2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of one hundred seventy-five
million nine hundred thousand Euros (EUR 175,900,000), as such amount may
be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion (“Loan”).

2.02. The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.

2.03 The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.

2.04. The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Fixed Spread or such rate as may
apply following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General
Conditions.

2.05. The Borrower elects to apply the Automatic Rate Fixing Conversion to the Loan.
Accordingly, without limitation upon the provisions of Article IV of the General
Conditions and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in
accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate
basis applicable to the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during
two consecutive Interest Periods shall be converted from the initial Variable Rate
to a Fixed Rate for the full maturity of such amount in accordance with the

 
2.06.

2.07.

2.08.

3.01.

4.01.

5.01.

5.02.

2.

provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.

The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 2
to this Agreement.

Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.05 of the General
Conditions, the Borrower shall promptly furnish to the Bank such information
relating to the provisions of this Article II as the Bank may, from time to time,
reasonably request.

ARTICLE II — PROGRAM

The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.
To this end, and further to Section 5.05 of the General Conditions:

(a) the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of
either party, exchange views on the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy
framework and the progress achieved in carrying out the Program; and

(b) without limitation upon paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall
promptly inform the Bank of any situation that would have the effect of
materially reversing the objectives of the Program or any action taken
under the Program including any action specified in Section I of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK

The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely a situation
has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part
of it, will be carried out.

ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS

The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that
the Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out
the Program and with the adequacy of the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy
framework.

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and twenty (120) days after
the Signature Date.

 
6.01.

6.02.

6.03.

3.

ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister responsible for economy.

For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:

(a)

(b)

the Borrower’s address is:

Ministére de |’Economie, de la Prospective et de la Programmation du
Développement

BP 747

Libreville

Republic of Gabon; and

the Borrower’s Electronic Address is:

Email: mecitdgd@gmail.com; and economiesecretariat@yahoo.com
Facsimile: (241) 77 35 90

For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:

(a)

(b)

the Bank’s address is:

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America; and

the Bank’s Electronic Address is:

Telex: Facsimile:

248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391
64145(MCT)

 
-4-

AGREED as of the Signature Date.

    

Authorized Representative

Name: “yen A—mMiane OLANDAWA
Title. Me apace Y > -
Date: 25H- OD. TIOAS.

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

By:

AZ

Es Representative

 

UEP NA tener Ri OEmnRE DMN AEE RET TET ee
-5-

SCHEDULE 1

Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds

Section I. Actions under the Program

The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following:

L To enhance revenue mobilization and reduce tax expenditure, the Borrower’s
Ministry of Economy has taken the following measures: (a) include, in the draft
2019 Finance Law, provisions to abrogate tax reliefs and preferential rates in the
tax and customs systems, and an assessment report on tax expenditures in
domestic tax sources of 2018; (b) amend through two arrétés, the selection of
products under /a Vie Chére Program, to include only 36 clusters of basic food
items fully exempted of custom duties and value-added tax; and (c) amend
through an arrété, the mandates and functions of the Inter-Ministerial Committee
for the Macroeconomic and Fiscal Framework to coordinate and oversee tax
expenditure management.

2. To enhance revenue mobilization, the Borrower has: (a) introduced in the 2018
Amended Finance Law, excise taxes on additional goods and services, including
on luxury cars, and revised rates on existing excise items; and (b) activated a levy
of 5% on the value of goods imported by small and microbusinesses not
registered as value-added-tax taxpayers.

a In order to strengthen the management of human resources and recruitment
control system: (i) the Borrower’s Prime Minister has signed an arrété to extend
the hiring freeze for a period of 36 months until August 2021, excluding only its
ministries responsible for health, national education, social affairs, and defense;
and (ii) the Borrower’s Ministries of Public Service and Budget have initiated the
identification of civil servants and the clean-up of the human resources records to
be completed by December 2018.

4. To move from automatic promotion to performance-based management, the
Borrower’s Prime Minister has signed an arrété to suspend automatic promotions
of civil servants for three years, until August 2021.

a. In order to improve the efficiency and transparency of public spending: (a) the
Borrower’s Agence de Régulation des Marchés Publics has published its first
annual report including statistics on public procurement contracts and the single
source contracting rate; and (b) the Borrower’s supreme audit institution has
finalized and published its annual report to the President and has published its
performance audit reports on infrastructure, and social and health insurance
(CNAMGS).
10.

11.

-6-

To open the one-stop shop for business creation and post-creation and make it
fully operational, the Borrower has: (a) reassigned staff from all relevant
agencies (business registry-RCCM, tax authority, social security, official gazette)
to the one-stop shop; and (b) developed a new unified paper form for business
start-up in use by all agencies present at the one-stop shop.

To improve the investment climate, the Borrower’s Prime Minister has signed an
arrété that establishes an inter-ministerial working group with a mandate to agree
on the contents of the new investment code and incentive regimes.

To increase access to digital services, the Borrower has implemented a
connectivity initiative in one rural area funded by the Universal Service Fund.

To facilitate the gradual implementation of the performance-based financing
reform in Selected Health Regions, starting in 2019, the Borrower has taken the
following measures: (a) the Prime Minister has signed an arrété defining the
governance structure of the performance-based financing mechanism for the
operationalization of the health districts (départements sanitaires); and (ii) the
Ministry of Health has completed the mapping of health facilities for purposes of
implementing the reform in Selected Health Regions.

To enhance the targeting of social safety nets programs and improve
the contribution of the social protection sector to the fight against poverty, the
Borrower has taken the following measures: (a) the President has
promulgated the Law introducing fundamental principles for improving the
targeting of Poor Gabonese (GEF); (b) the Minister responsible for Social
Protection has established a multisectoral commission mandated to draft the
roadmap to implement the new targeting mechanism and update the GEF
database; and (c) the Ministers responsible for Social Protection and the
Economy have adopted the roadmap.

To improve effectiveness and efficiency in administering health insurance and
delivering social safety nets programs, the Borrower, through the CNAGMS:
(a) has launched the bidding process for the digitalization of its services, starting
with health records; (b) has launched the bidding process for advisory services to
obtain ISO 9000 for quality management certification; and (c) imposed the
mandatory use of competitive bidding for the purchasing of cars.

Section II. Availability of Loan Proceeds

A.

General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank
may specify by notice to the Borrower.
-7-

Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan (except for amounts required to pay the
Front-end Fee) is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche, from which the
Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds. The allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below:

    
       
       
   
   

Amount of the Loan

Allocated
Allocations (expressed in EUR)

(1) Single Withdrawal Tranche 175,460,250
(2) Front-end Fee 439,750

(3) Amount due pursuant to Section 4.05(c)
of the General Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 175,900,000

Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions

   
      

 
 

No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank
is satisfied: (a) with the Program being carried out by the Borrower; and (b) with
the adequacy of the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework.

Deposit of Loan Amounts
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 2.03 of the General Conditions:

(a) the Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the first request
for withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter maintain the
following two dedicated accounts on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank: (i) a dedicated account in Euros (“Foreign Currency Dedicated
Account”); and (ii) a dedicated account in CFA Francs (“Local Currency
Dedicated Account”); and

(b) all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank
into the Foreign Currency Dedicated Account. Upon each deposit of an
amount of the Loan into the Foreign Currency Dedicated Account, the
Borrower shall deposit an equivalent amount into the Local Currency
Dedicated Account.

The Borrower, within thirty (30) days after the withdrawal of the Loan from the
Loan Account, shall report to the Bank: (a) the exact sum received into the
Foreign Currency Dedicated Account; (b) the details of the account to which the
CFA Francs equivalent of the Loan proceeds will be credited; (c) the record that
an equivalent amount has been accounted for in the Borrower’s budget
-8-

management systems; and (d) the statement of receipts and disbursement of the
Foreign Currency Dedicated Account.

Audit. Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall:

have the Dedicated Accounts audited by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to
the Bank;

furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than four
months after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the
report of such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request, and make such report publicly available in a timely fashion and in a
manner acceptable to the Bank; and

furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Dedicated Accounts
and their audit as the Bank shall reasonably request.

Closing Date. The Closing Date is December 31, 2019.
-9-

SCHEDULE 2
Commitment-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment
Date (“Installment Share’’).

Level Principal Repayments

Principal Payment Date Installment Share

On each May 15 and November 15
Beginning May 15, 2024

through May 15, 2038
On November 15, 2038

   
    
  
 

  
  
 

  
 

3.3%

   
-10-

APPENDIX
Definitions

“Agence de Régulation des Marches Publics” means the Borrower’s agency in
charge of public procurement regulation and control, created pursuant to the
Borrower’s Public Procurement Code.

“CNAMGS” means Caisse nationale d’assurance maladie et de garantie sociale,
the Borrower’s national fund for health insurance and social warranty.

“Dedicated Accounts” means both the Foreign Currency Dedicated Account and
the Local Currency Dedicated Account.

“Foreign Currency Dedicated Account” means the account referred to in Part
D.1(a) of Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

“GEF” means Gabonais Economiquement Faible, a categorization of a
demographic subset of the Borrower’s population pursuant to the law modifying
Article 11 of Loi n.034/2007 du 28 Janvier 2008 portant ratification de
l’ordonnance n.022/PR/2007 du 21 Aout 2007 instituant un Régime Obligatoire
d’Assurance Maladie et de Garantie Sociale en République Gabonaise, as
approved by Law No. 001/2018 promulgated by Decree No. 000228/PR of
September 18, 2018, published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette dated
September 21, 2018.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Development Policy
Financing”, dated July 14, 2017.

“Inter-Ministerial Committee for the Macroeconomic and Fiscal Framework”
means the committee referred to in the arrété from the Prime Minister No.
0402/PM, signed on September 13, 2018, and published in Official Gazette dated
September 24-30, 2018.

“La Vie Chere Program” means the program operationalized pursuant to the
Borrower’s Arrété n.0243/MEEDD/SG/DGCC du 23 avril 2013 soumettant les
produits importes de consommation courante aux régimes de blocage et de
liberté contrélée de prix, Arrété n.000757/MEPIP/SG du 24 octobre 2014
portant création, attributions, et organisation de la cellule d’Analyse et de
prospective sur la vie chére, Arrété n.0021/MEPPD/CAB du 23 juillet 2018
fixant la liste des produits bénéficiant de l’exonération des droits et taxes a
l’importation, Arrété n.0022/MEPPD/SG/DGCC du 23 juillet 2018 soumettant
les produits importés de premiere nécessité au régime de blocage et de liberté
controlée des prix, and Arrété n.0026/MEPPD/MC du 13 septembre 2018 fixant

 
il.

Ez.

13.

lis

les modalités de délivrance de |’Agrément d’importateur vie chére en République
Gabonaise.

“Local Currency Dedicated Account” means the account referred to in Part
D.1(b) of Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

“Program” means the program of objectives, policies, and actions set forth or
referred to in the letter dated December 11, 2018, from the Borrower to the Bank
declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and
requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its
execution and comprising actions taken, including those set forth in Section I of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and actions to be taken consistent with the
program’s objectives.

“Selected Health Regions” means the Borrower’s west, central, central south and
south health regions and two health departments (Libreville 1 and Libreville 2)
within the Borrower’s Libreville-Owendo health region.

“Signature Date” means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the
Bank signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to “the
date of the Loan Agreement” in the General Conditions.

“Single Withdrawal Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the
category entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of
Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

“Universal Service Fund” means the fund created by the Borrower through
Decree No. 000544/PR/MPT of July 15, 2005, on the modalities of
implementation, funding and management of the telecommunications universal
service under the authority of the telecommunications regulatory agency.
