Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

LOAN NUMBER 8924-SR

Loan Agreement

(Saramacca Canal System Rehabilitation Project)

between
REPUBLIC OF SURINAME
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
LOAN NUMBER 8924-SR
LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between REPUBLIC OF SURINAME

(“Borrower’) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank’’). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:

1.01.

1.02.

2.01.

2.02.

2.04.

2.05.

2.06.

2M.

a.0L.

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to and form
part of this Agreement.

Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement. |

ARTICLE II — LOAN
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of thirty-five million Dollars,
($35,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency
Conversion (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this

Agreement (“Project”).

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section III of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.

The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the ~
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.

The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Fixed Spread or such rate as may apply
following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General Conditions.

The Payment Dates are May 1 and November | in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.

ARTICLE III — PROJECT
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the

Borrower shall carry out the Project through the MoPWTC in accordance with the
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
4.01.

4.02.

4.03.

5.01.

SARA,

5.03.

ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that the
Borrower, shall have adopted the Operations Manual in a form and manner acceptable to
the Bank. |
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the Signature Date.
For purposes of Section 9.05 (b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the

obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement (other than those providing for payment
obligations) shall terminate is fifteen (15) years after the Signature Date.

ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Finance.
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Borrower’s address is:
Ministry of Finance
Tamarindelaan No. 3
P.O. Box 1348
Paramaribo
Republic of Suriname; and

(b) the Borrower’s Electronic Address is:

Telex: Facsimile: E-mail:
597472610 597 476134 secmin@finance.gov.sr

For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Bank’s address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development

1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America; and

(b) the Bank’s Electronic Address is:

Telex: Facsimile:

248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
AGREED as of the Signature Date.

REPUBLIC OF SURINAME

 

Name: a oe fi: WWE FD RAANY

Title: _/Yiw s762 oF Fanner

Date: Arhte f/,.27°7

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR.
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

a
By / We G bal
_ Authorized Representative
Name: 7A 4SEGEN SAYED KX HAN
Title: Cova7Try DRECTR

Date: ARE “/, 20/7
SCHEDULE 1

Project Description

The objective of the Project is to reduce flood risk for the people and assets in the Greater

Paramaribo Area and improve the operation of the Saramacca Canal System.

Part 1:

1.1.

Part 2:

2.5.

Pie

Dut

Part 3:

The Project consists of the following parts:
Improving the Drainage Infrastructure

(a) Rehabilitation of: (i) two ship locks at the SCS outlets of the Saramacca river and the
Suriname river; and (ii) the sluice gates at the SCS outlet to the Suriname river and the
Saramacca river; (b) re-profiling and clearing of the SCS to remove sediment; and (c)
preparation of the relevant designs.

Carrying out of pilots of selected local or green flood management solutions in selected
priority flood-prone sections of the urban secondary or tertiary canals feeding the primary
canal of the SCS.

Strengthening the Saramacca Canal System

Updating of selected sections of the Drainage Master Plan and development and updating
of guidelines and recommendations for efficient planning and managing the Saramacca
Canal System drainage area, including drainage design standards, norms and regulations.
Establishment of an asset management platform for the operational management of the
SCS to ensure optimization of the canal water levels for flood control, navigation, and

irrigation purposes during the day-to-day operation of the system.

Preparation of a feasibility study for a water management platform, to be composed of
various stakeholders, for the operation and sustainability of the SCS.

Providing a Contingent Emergency Response

Provision of immediate response to an Eligible Emergency, as needed.

Part 4:

Supporting Project Management and Implementation support

Provision of support for overall Project management and implementation, including administration,
_ logistics, office space, monitoring and evaluation, technical and financial management activities,

Project

audits, acquisition of equipment, provision of training on procurement, financial

management, technical, environmental and social safeguards, and carrying out of communications
planning and citizen engagement events.
SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Section I. Implementation Arrangements

A.

l.

Institutional Arrangements

The Borrower, through the MoPWTC, shall establish, not later than two (2) months after
the Effective Date, and thereafter operate and maintain at all times during Project
implementation, a Project implementation unit (the “Saramacca Canal Unit”) with a

structure, functions, responsibilities, staff and adequate resources, all satisfactory to the
Bank.

Not later than one year after the Effective Date, the Borrower, through the MoPWTC,
shall: (a) establish, and thereafter operate and maintain throughout the implementation of
the Project, a Project Committee to be in charge of coordinating Project activities among
the Borrower’s agencies and administrative authorities, and to inform stakeholders on
Project activities and overall progress, with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank; and
(b) organize the first meeting of the Project Committee.

Operations Manual

The Borrower shall prepare, adopt, and thereafter carry out the Project in accordance with
a manual (“Operations Manual’’) satisfactory to the Bank, which shall set forth rules,
methods, guidelines, standard documents and procedures for carrying out the Project,
including, inter alia, the following provisions:

(a) the detailed description of the Project, their sequencing and prospective timetable;

(b) the detailed institutional arrangements for the implementation of the Project;

(c) the Project procurement, contract management and accounting procedures, and
financial management, environmental and social safeguards requirements and
procedures;

(d) the Project monitoring and evaluation and reporting;

(e) the ESIA, the ESMP, the RPF and any RAPs required to be prepared in accordance

with the RPF;
(f) the arrangements and procedures for grievance redress mechanisms;
(g) the structure, functions and responsibilities of the Saramacca Canal Unit;
(h) the objectives, structure and functions of the Project Committee;

(i) the CER Annex; and
(j) a code of conduct, satisfactory to the Bank, for any contractors, sub-contractors or
consultants hired by the Borrower to carry out activities under the Project, which
shall be included in any agreement with any such contractors, sub-contractors or
consultants, all in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.

In case of any conflict between the terms of the Operations Manual and those of this
Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.

Safeguards

The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out with due regard to appropriate
health, safety, social, and environmental standards and practices, and in accordance with
the Safeguards Instruments.

The Borrower shall take all measures to implement all RAPs in a manner and timeframe
satisfactory to the Bank. To this end, the Borrower shall ensure that:

(a) funds are made available to cover all the costs of implementing all RAPs;

(b) prior to carrying out any Project activity which involves displacement, Affected
Persons shall be compensated at full replacement cost, resettled and rehabilitated
in accordance with the RAPs, as applicable; and

(c) the implementation, monitoring and evaluation of such RAPs is carried out and
reported in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.

The Borrower shall ensure that the obligation to comply with the relevant Safeguards
Instruments is incorporated: (a) in the contracts between the Borrower and the relevant
contractors and any entity (including any engineer) supervising the Project’s civil works;
and (b) in the contracts between the relevant contractors and the contractors’
subcontractors.

The Borrower shall ensure that all the bidding documents and contracts include the
obligation of the relevant contractors and subcontractors to: (i) adopt and implement
measures to assess and manage the risks and impacts of labor influx and workers’ camps;
and (ii) adopt and enforce codes of conduct, acceptable to the Bank, that should be provided
to and signed by all workers; as applicable to such civil works commissioned or carried out
pursuant to said contracts.

Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure, and cause to ensure,
that none of the provisions of the Safeguards Instruments are abrogated, amended,
repealed, suspended or waived. In case of any inconsistencies between the provisions of
any of the Safeguard Instruments and the provisions of this Agreement, the provisions of
this Agreement shall prevail.

The Borrower shall ensure that: (a) all consultancies related to technical assistance, design
and capacity building under the Project, the application of whose results could have
environmental, social and health and safety implications, shall only be undertaken pursuant
to terms of reference reviewed and found satisfactory by the Bank; and (b) such terms of
reference shall require the technical assistance, design and capacity building activities to
take into account the requirements of the applicable Safeguards Policies and EHS
Guidelines.

Without limitation to its other reporting obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower
shall:

(a) take all measures necessary to regularly collect, compile, and submit to the Bank,
as part of the Project Reports, and promptly in a separate report whenever the Bank
may require, information on the status of compliance with the Safeguards
Instruments. Such information shall include: (i) measures taken in furtherance of
the Safeguards Instruments; (ii) conditions, if any, which interfere or threaten to
interfere with the smooth implementation of the Safeguards Instruments; and (iii)
remedial measures taken or required to be taken to address such conditions;

(b) promptly furnish to the Bank a copy of each progress report prepared and
submitted by any entity (including any engineer) supervising the Project’s civil
works, the Project’s contractors and/or subcontractors; and

(c) promptly upon receipt, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank any notification
_ received from any entity (including any engineer) supervising the Project’s civil |
works, the Project’s contractors and/or subcontractors regarding any incident that

might have occurred during Project implementation.

The Borrower shall maintain, throughout Project implementation, and publicize the
availability of a grievance redress mechanism, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank, to hear and determine fairly and in good faith all complaints raised in relation to the
Project, and take all measures necessary to implement the determinations made by such
mechanism in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.

Contingent Emergency Response

In order to ensure the proper implementation of Part 3 of the Project (“CER Part’’), the
Borrower shall:

(a) prepare and furnish to the Bank for its review and approval an annex to the
Operations Manual (“CER Annex”) which shall set forth detailed implementation
arrangements for the CER Part, including: (i) the resources to be allocated to the

- MoPWTC; (ii) specific activities which may be included in the CER Part, Eligible
Expenditures required therefor (“Emergency Expenditures”), and any procedures
for such inclusion; (iii) financial management arrangements for the CER Part; (iv)
procurement methods and procedures for Emergency Expenditures to be financed
under the CER Part; (v) documentation required for withdrawals of Emergency
Expenditures; (vi) environmental and social safeguard management frameworks
for the CER Part, consistent with the Bank’s policies on the matter; and (vi) any
other arrangements necessary to ensure proper coordination and implementation
of the CER Part;

(b) afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to review said proposed CER Annex; —
(c)

(d)

(e)

promptly adopt the CER Annex for the CER Part as shall have been approved by
the Bank;

ensure that the CER Part is carried out in accordance with the CER Annex;
provided, however, that in the event of any inconsistency between the provisions
of the CER Annex and this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall °
prevail; and

not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive any provision of the CER Annex
without prior approval by the Bank.

The Borrower shall undertake no activities under the CER Part (and no activities shall be
included in the CER Part) unless and until the following conditions (“CER Conditions’’)
have been met in respect of said activities:

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

Section II.

Section III.

A.

the Borrower has determined that an Eligible Emergency has occurred, has
furnished to the Bank a request to include said activities in the CER Part in order
to respond to said Eligible Emergency, and the Bank has agreed with such
determination, accepted said request and notified the Borrower thereof;

the Borrower has prepared and disclosed all safeguards instruments required for
said activities, in accordance with the CER Annex, the Bank has approved all such
instruments, and the Borrower has implemented any actions which are required to
be taken under said instruments;

the MoPWTC has adequate staff and resources for the purposes of implementing
said activities; and

the MoPWTC has adopted the CER Annex in form, substance and manner
acceptable to the Association and the provisions of the CER Annex remain, or have
been updated in accordance with the provisions of Section I.D.1(a) of this Schedule
so as to be appropriate for the inclusion and implementation of said activities under
the CER Part, including in relation to the Negative List.

Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank each Project Report not later than one month after
the end of each calendar semester, covering the calendar semester.

Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

General.

Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and in
accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the Borrower may
withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to: (a) finance Eligible Expenditures; and (b) pay: (i)
the Front-end Fee; and (ii) each Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar premium; in the
amount allocated and, if applicable, up to the percentage set forth against each Category of
the following table:

cdma. 6 Amount of the Loan | Percentage of Expenditures

Category Allocated to be financed

(expressed in USD) Gnclusive of Taxes)

(1) Goods, works, non-consulting 32,000,000 100%

services, and consulting services

under Part 1 and 2 of the Project

Part 3 of the Project

(3) Goods, works, non-consulting 2,500,000 100%

services, consulting services,

Operating Costs and Training,

Workshops and Consultations under

Part 4 of the Project

(4) Front-end Fee 87,500 Amount payable pursuant to
Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions

(5) Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Bees Amount due pursuant to

Collar premium . Section 4.05 (c) of the

| , General Conditions

TOTAL AMOUNT 35,000,000

B. Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

       
   

     
   
   
 
   
 

  

    
   

 
   
  

  
  

l. Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A above, no withdrawal shall be made:

(a) for payments made prior to the Signature Date, except that withdrawals up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 may be made for payments made prior
to this date but on or after wma 1, 2019, for Eligible Expenditures under
Category (3); or

(b) under Category (2), unless and until the Bank is satisfied, and notified the
Borrower of its satisfaction, that all of the CER Conditions, as described under
Section [.D.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have been met in respect of said
activities.

2s The Closing Date is December 31, 2024.
-10-

SCHEDULE 3
Commitment-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage of the
total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date (“Installment Share’).

   

 

Level Principal Repayments

Principal Payment Date Installment Share

On each May | and November 1 2.08%
Beginning May 1, 2025
through May 1, 2048 |

On November 1, 2048 2.24%

 
   
  

 
 
 
10.

11.

kt wo

APPENDIX
Definitions

“Affected Person” means a person or entity who, on account of the execution of the Project
has experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts caused by: (i) the
involuntary taking of land resulting in: (A) relocation or loss of shelter; (B) loss of assets
or access to assets; or (C) loss of income sources or means of livelihood, whether or not
such person must move to another location; or (ii) the involuntary restriction of access to
legally designated parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood
of such person; and, “Affected Persons’, means more than one such Affected Person.

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and Corruption
in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006
and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section III.A of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.

“CER Conditions” means the conditions described under Section I.D.2 of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.

“CER Annex” means the operations manual referred to in Section I.D.1(a) of Schedule 2
to this Agreement, to be adopted by the Borrower for the CER Part in accordance with the
provisions of said Section.

“CER Part” means Part 3 of the Project, as described under Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

“Drainage Master Plan” means the Borrower’s drainage master plan of 2001, dated June
15, 2001.

“EHS Guidelines” means the World Bank Group Environmental, Health and Safety
Guidelines published on www. ifc.org/ehsguidelines, as said guidelines are updated from
time to time.

“Eligible Emergency” means an event that has caused, or is likely to imminently cause, a
major adverse economic and/or social impact to the Borrower, associated with a natural
crisis or disaster.

“Emergency Expenditure” means any of the eligible expenditures set forth in the CER
Annex in accordance with the provisions of Section I.D.1(a)(ii) of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and required for the activities included in the CER Part.

‘“ESIA” or “Environmental and Social Impact Assessment” means the document prepared
and adopted by the Borrower, dated November 2, 2018, acceptable to the Bank, disclosed
in-country, and in the Bank’s website on November 5, 2018, setting out details of potential
environmental and social risks and adverse impacts associated with any Project activity,
together with an environmental and social management plan defining measures to manage
such risks and impacts, and including any schedules to such assessment, and as such
rz.

17.

18.

20.

21.

-12-

assessment may be amended by the Borrower from time to time, with the prior written
approval of the Bank.

‘“ESMP” or “Environmental and Social Management Plan” means the plan prepared and
adopted by the Borrower, dated November 2, 2018, acceptable to the Bank, disclosed in-
country, and in the Bank’s website on November 5, 2018 setting out: (a) details of the
specific actions and measures to be taken during the implementation and operation of the
Project to avoid, minimize, mitigate or offset adverse environmental and social impacts
(including health and safety issues), or to reduce them to acceptable levels; and (b) policies
designed to facilitate the achievement of the objectives of the ESIA under the Project, along
with the procedural and institutional measures needed to implement such actions, measures
and policies; including any schedules to such plan, and as such plan may be amended by
the Borrower from time to time, with the prior written approval of the Bank.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for IBRD Finaneing, Investment Project Financing”, dated July 14,
2017.

“Greater Paramaribo Area” means the area of about 190 square kilometers in Paramaribo
and located within the Saramacca Canal System catchment area.

“MOF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance, or any successor thereto acceptable to
the Bank.

“MoPWTC” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Public Works, Transport and
Communication, or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.

“Operating Costs” means the reasonable costs, as shall have been approved by the Bank,
for the incremental expenses incurred on account of Project implementation, consisting of
vehicle operation and maintenance, communication and insurance costs, banking charges,
rental expenses, office (and office equipment) maintenance, utilities, document
duplication/printing, consumables, travel cost and per diem for Project staff for travel
linked to the implementation of the Project, and salaries of contractual staff for the Project
(but excluding consultants’ services and salaries of officials of the Borrower’s civil
service).

“Operations Manual” means the manual to be prepared by the Borrower in accordance with
Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Procurement Regulations” means, for purposes of paragraph 85 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the ““World Bank Procurement Regulations for IPF anne dated
July 2016, revised November 2017 and August 2018.

“Project Committee” means the committee to be established by the Borrower in accordance
to Section I.A.2(a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“RAP” or “Resettlement Action Plan” means any plan, satisfactory to the Bank, to be
adopted by the Borrower, and disclosed on the Bank’s website, which includes the
principles, procedures, organizational arrangements and budget to implement the
Db

23%

24.

a.

26.

bts

28.

«4S +

resettlement related activities under the Project, or under Parts of the Project; as said
resettlement action plan may be revised from time to time with the prior written agreement
of the Bank; and “RAPs” means, collectively, all such RAP.

“RPF” or “Resettlement Policy Framework” means the framework prepared and adopted
by the Borrower, dated October 2, 2018, satisfactory to the Bank, and disclosed in country
and on the Bank’s website on November 5, 2018, which sets out the resettlement principles,
organizational arrangements (including consultation and budget), design criteria to be
applied to resettlement related Project activities, and guidelines for the preparation and
implementation of RAPs, as such framework may be amended from time to time with the
prior written agreement of the Bank.

“Safeguards Instruments” means collectively, the ESMP, the ESIA, the RPF and the RAPs;
and “Safeguard Instrument” means any of such Safeguards Instruments.

“Safeguards Policies” means, the Operational Policies (OPs) and Bank Procedures (BPs)
of the Bank, namely OP/BP 4.01 (Environmental Assessment), OP/BP 4.04 (Natural
Habitats), OP/BP 4.09 (Pest Management), OP/BP 4.10 (Indigenous Peoples), OP/BP 4.11
(Physical Cultural Resources), OP/BP 4.12 (Involuntary Resettlement), OP/BP 4.36
(Forests), and OP/BP 4.37 (Safety of Dams); they can be found at
https://policies.worldbank.org.

““Saramacca Canal System” or “SCS” means the structural and non-structural measures and
elements of the canal that connects the Suriname river and the Saramacca river.

“Signature Date” means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the Bank
signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to “the date of the Loan
Agreement” in the General Conditions.

“SCU” means Saramacca Canal Unit, a unit to be established by the Borrower in
accordance to Section I.A.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Training, Workshops and Consultations” means the reasonable costs, as shall have been
approved by the Bank, for training, workshops and consultations conducted under the
Project, including tuition, travel and subsistence costs for training, workshops and
consultations participants, costs associated with securing the services of trainers, workshop
speakers and facilitators, rental of training, workshops and consultations facilities,
preparation and reproduction of training, workshops and consultations materials, and other
costs directly related to training course, workshop and consultation preparation and
implementation (but excluding goods and consultants’ services).
