Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

% ;

DOCUME NTS
The World Bank 1818 H Street N.W. (202) 477-1234
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT Washington, D.C. 20433 Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION U.S.A. Cable Address: INDEVAS

—,

Ju uy qn 2019

H.E. Roger OWONO MBA

Minister of Economy, Finance and National Solidarities
Boulevard Triomphal

B.P. 747

Libreville

Gabonese Republic

Ref: Gabonese Republic: Infrastructure and Local Development Project II
(Loan No. 8564-GA)

Amendment to the Loan Agreement

Excellency:

We refer to the Loan Agreement dated January 14, 2016 (“Agreement”) for the above-
referenced Project, between the Gabonese Republic (“Borrower”) and the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (“Bank”). Please note that the capitalized terms used in this letter
(“Amendment Letter”) and not defined herein have the meanings ascribed to them in the
Agreement.

In reference to your letters dated April 5 and June 4, 2019, requesting changes to the
Agreement, we are pleased to inform you that the Bank agrees to your request and hereby proposes
to amend the Agreement as follows:

1. Part A of Schedule I is amended to read as follows:

“Part A. Improving Urban Infrastructure to Increase Access to Services

Carrying out investment activities to improve connectivity and access to primary
infrastructure in the selected Target Cities of Koulamoutou, Libreville, Makokou, Mouila,
Oyem, Port-Gentil and Tchibanga, through inter alia: (a) upgrading of selected urban
roads; (b) financing of further urban priorities determined on the basis of the City
Development Plan for each Target City, including drainage, water and sewerage and other
municipal infrastructure activities; and (c) road rehabilitation works in the cities of Oyem

Constructing and/or rehabilitating basic service investments and infrastructure as
determined on the basis of the Neighborhood Development Plan for each selected
neighborhood within the selected Target Cities of Koulamoutou, Libreville, Makokou,
Mouila, Oyem, Port-Gentil and Tchibanga, including inter alia: (a) access roads; (b) water
and sanitation works; (c) secondary drainage systems; (d) health centers and schools; and
(e) local markets.”

Part B of Schedule I is amended as follows:

oe

l.

Providing technical assistance to Target Cities for, inter alia: (a) elaboration of
City Development Plans, to determine investment priorities and needs in Target
Cities; (b) elaboration of Neighborhood Development Plans, to determine
investment priorities in selected neighborhoods; (c) elaboration of Urban Master
Plans, to guide long term urban development objectives in Target Cities; (d)
enhancement of revenue collection and financial management through the
improvement of systems for tax collection; (e) establishment of municipal
technical services, including municipal asset management system; (f) supporting
municipal organization; (g) preparation of an e-governance strategy; and (h)
handling specific demands from municipalities, including asset management,
financial management and urban planning.

Carrying out a program of activities to build the capacity of the government and
decentralized ministerial departments through, inter alia: (a) Training, technical
assistance and provision of equipment and goods for assistance in municipal
management; (b) elaboration and operationalization of rules and procedures
governing decentralization and local government finance and conducting public
consultations; (c) organization of Training and workshops on said rules and
procedures; (d) preparation of a financial management manual for local
governments; (e) carrying out of feasibility studies on transfer mechanism to local
governments; (f) assistance in development of a national urban sector strategy; and
(g) development of a national solid waste management strategy.

Strengthening the Borrower’s SMEs sector through, inter alia: (a) carrying out a
study on the SME sector dynamics and financing environment; and (b) provision
of a Training to SMEs in technical areas such as bid preparation, general company
finances, labor-intensive construction techniques, environmental and_ social
safeguard management, and social awareness and responsibilities.

Strengthening civil society through, inter alia: (a) recruitment of community
facilitators to support local communities’ involvement in the urban sector
development process; (b) Training in urban development issues, management of
neighborhood infrastructure and equipment; and (c) support for the establishment
of collaboration mechanisms between community-based organizations and Target
Cities.

Strengthening urban resilience in Target Cities through, inter alia (a) local natural
disaster risk assessments, (b) studies to generate updated urban data, and (c)
Training.”

The table in section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 is amended as set out in the Annex to this
Amendment Letter.

é..
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing amendment by signing and dating this
Amendment Letter in the spaces provided below. Henceforward, all other provisions of the
Agreement, except as amended through this Amendment Letter shall remain in full force and effect.
This Amendment Letter shall be executed in two counterparts each of which shall be an original.

Upon confirmation, please return one fully executed original to us. The provisions set forth in this
Amendment Letter shall be effective as of the date of the Agreement.

Sincerely, ——

  

hn sao ef.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUC Bis): AND DEVELOPMENT

AGREED:

GABONESE REPUBLIC

By:

Name: {)\\X/ONIO MIKA  +¢0OUSS

Date: yl JO Qo1S

Annex

a
Annex

     
    
 

   

Amount of the Percentage of Expenditures

to be Financed

    
 

      
    
    
 

Category Financing Allocated

(expressed in EUR)

29,840,750

60,144,000 100%
688,000 Amount payable pursuant to

Section 2.07(a) of the General
Conditions
227,250

  

(inclusive of Taxes)

 
     
   
   
   
     
      
   
  
     
  

(1) Goods, non-consulting
services, consultants’
services, Training and
Operating Costs for the
Project.

(2) Works under Part (A) of the
Project

 
    
 
     
   
  
 
     
  

(3) Refund of the Preparation
Advance

  

(4) Front-End Fee Amount payable pursuant to
Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance with
Section 2.07 (b) of the

General Conditions

   
  
 

Amount due pursuant to
Section 2.08(c) of this
Agreement

(5) Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar
premium

TOTAL AMOUNT

   
   

   

i
