Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

LOAN NUMBER 9007-AR

Loan Agreement

(Supporting the Electricity Social Tariff Transition in the Province of Buenos Aires Project)
between

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

and

PROVINCE OF BUENOS AIRES
LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR

RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) and PROVINCE OF BUENOS AIRES
(“Borrower”). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:

1.01.

1.02.

2.01.

2.02.

2.03.

2.04.

2.05.

2.06.

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to and form part of
this Agreement.

Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have the
meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this Agreement.

ARTICLE II — LOAN

The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of one hundred and fifty million United States
Dollars ($150,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency
Conversion (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement
(“Project”).

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section III of Schedule
2 to this Agreement. The Borrower’s Representatives for purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken pursuant to this Section are its Minister of Economy, its Undersecretary of
Finance, or its Provincial Director of Multilateral Organisms and Bilateral Financing.

The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.

The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn
Loan Balance.

The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Variable Spread or such rate as may apply following
a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General Conditions.

The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II — PROJECT

The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the Borrower

shall carry out the Project through DPOMEB, with the assistance of DPSS, both under its Ministry

of Economy, in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and Schedule

2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK

The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:

l
4.02.

2.0L.

6.01.

6.02.

6.03.

(a) The Regulatory Agencies, and/or the SINTyS National Directorate shall have failed to
fulfill their respective roles for Project implementation as set forth in the Operational
Manual so as to affect, materially and adversely, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of
the Borrower to carry out the Project.

(b) The ST Legal Framework shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived so as to affect, materially and adversely, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of
the Borrower to carry out the Project.

The Additional Events of Acceleration consist of the following, namely, that any of the events

specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for

a period of 60 days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower.

ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the Signature Date.

ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

Except as provided in Section 2.02 and in the ESCP, the Borrower’s Representative is its Minister
of Economy.

For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) the Borrower’s address is:

Calle 8 entre 45 y 46

B1900TGR, La Plata

Province of Buenos Aires

Argentine Republic; and

(b) the Borrower’s Electronic Address is:

E-mail: finanzas.dpom@ec.gba.gov.ar

Facsimile:
(+54) 221 429 4503 / 4489

For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) the Bank’s address is:

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N. W.

Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America; and
(b) the Bank’s Electronic Address is:

Telex: Facsimile: E-mail
248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391 Jschwartz3 @worldbank.org
64145(MCI)

AGREED as of the Signature Date.

  

Authorized Representative
Name: DAM\AN) YABLO BonAdi
Title: MinistTRo De ECCoNno Mas PBA

Date: OCTOBER 249, 2ONF

piace chest ae cere cect tip aces Mesis

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

» CLS

Authorized Representative

Name: Jordan) Schwartz

Title: Contty Ditecror
Date:_ October 24 2049 _
SCHEDULE 1

Project Description

The objective of the Project is to support the transition of the electricity social tariff scheme from

the federal to the Buenos Aires provincial level, while strengthening the institutional capacity of the PBA
to implement ST delivery.

The Project consists of the following parts:

Part 1: Institutional Capacity Building on ST Implementation and Energy Efficiency

aks

Lea

Institutional Strengthening on ST Management, Information Procedures, and Transparency.
Carrying out activities focused on: (a) enhancing the PBA’s institutional structure to manage the
ST, including the review of roles and responsibilities to implement and monitor the ST; (b)
providing solutions to information gaps of the ST by improving management procedures and
strengthening the data systems of the DPSS and the DPSP; and (c) improving transparency through
access to information on ST, and upgrading grievance mechanisms related to ST; through, inter
alia: (i) development of agreements with protocols and related software for systemic exchange of
information among Regulatory Agencies and the PBA; (ii) provision of equipment to strengthen
the information technology capacity of agencies participating in ST implementation; (iii) carrying
out of training of provincial agencies and distribution companies on new procedures and
information mechanisms; (iv) support to improve regulatory agencies’ grievance redress
mechanism; (v) data exchange with other public stakeholders at the federal and provincial levels;
(vi) consolidation of a unified data collection system on electricity user; and (vii) development and
publication of a regular report on ST.

Gathering Information at the Local Level and from other Provincial and National Agencies.
Carrying out activities focused on: (a) updating electricity user’s information from the field (re-
empadronamiento) and other complementary actions, especially for the users without identification
data; and (b) combining additional administrative sources for cross-checks to provide information
on users without socio-economic attributes; through, inter alia: (i) support to selected distribution
companies for improving beneficiary information; (ii) development of coordination activities and
protocols for transferring the data from OCEBA and ENRE to the PBA’s database; (iii) carrying
out of communication campaigns and preparation of dissemination materials for electricity users
on eligibility criteria for ST and the need for updating their identification data; (iv) support for the
combination of additional administrative sources to ensure interoperability across different
databases (for cross-checks); and (v) definition of unified criteria and procedures to assess ST
inclusion by claims and ad hoc mechanisms.

Assessing the ST and Promoting Energy Efficiency Behavior. Carrying out activities focused on:
(a) strengthening the PBA’s analytical capabilities to evaluate ST policies to generate evidence-
based recommendations and guidelines; (b) assessing, designing, and implementing energy
efficiency measures for ST beneficiaries through, inter alia: (i) development of tools and
instruments to combine data sources and perform distributive analysis on ST and other subsidies;
(ii) carrying out of an evaluation of the electricity ST to identify potential measures or reforms that
can substantially reduce inclusion and exclusion errors; (iii) knowledge sharing on electricity social
tariff reforms across the world, and with other provinces implementing ST; (iv) provision of
information and training at different institutional levels and through agencies, especially the ones

4
in direct contact with users; (Vv) carrying out of research and studies aimed at better understanding
energy consumption patterns in vulnerable households and potential sources for energy efficiency
improvements, including the potential implementation of efficiency measures; and (vi) carrying
out of communication and education campaigns for electricity users.

Part 2: Social Tariff Scheme Financing

Supporting the management and implementation of the ST through the provision of financing for
the ST Subsidies.

Part 3: Project Management, Monitoring, and Evaluation

31. Supporting DPOMFB to carry out its responsibilities associated with Project management
and implementation, as set forth in the Operational Manual.

diz Supporting DPSS to: (a) monitor and evaluate the Project; and (b) coordinate the studies
to design an integrated proposal of ST.
SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Section I. Implementation Arrangements

A. Institutional Arrangements.

l The Borrower, through DPOMEFB, shall: (a) operate and maintain throughout Project
implementation, a Project management team (“PMT”) with functions and responsibilities
acceptable to the Bank including, but not limited to: (i) procurement, financial management, and
disbursement functions for the Project; (ii) environmental and risk management responsibilities;
and (iii) technical implementation of the activities under Part 2 of the Project and coordination with
DPSS for the technical implementation of activities under Parts | and 3 of the Project; and (b) staff
said team with a coordinator, technical experts, and other personnel, all in number and with
qualifications acceptable to the Bank.

B. Operational Manual.

l. Without limitation to the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, the Borrower, through
DPOMEB, shall carry out the Project in accordance with an Operational Manual, satisfactory to the
Bank, containing, inter alia:

(a) the detailed description of all Project implementation activities, their sequencing and
prospective timetable and benchmark in relation thereto;

(b) the inter-institutional arrangements for the Project, including the roles and responsibilities
of the different Ministries and Directorates of the Borrower involved in Project
implementation, as well as coordination arrangements with agencies at the federal level
such as ENRE and the SINTyS National Directorate;

(c) the functions and responsibilities of the personnel of the PMT;

(d) the Project’s administrative, financial, accounting, auditing, procurement, and
disbursement procedures, including:

(i) detailed procedures for the procurement of goods, consulting services, and non-
consulting services under the Project set forth in the Procurement Plan;

(ii) detailed disbursement arrangements and flow of Project funds;

(iii) | detailed procedures for the review and approval of Loan withdrawal applications
to be furnished to the Bank, in conformity with Schedule 4 and the DFIL, and
including the criteria for the preparation of ST Subsidies Spending Reports and
reimbursement mechanisms; and

(iv) detailed financial reporting and audit requirements for the Project, including the
separate audit requirements for expenditures under the ST Subsidies;
(e) the procedures for the monitoring, evaluation, and reporting of Project implementation,
including the monitoring indicators and guidelines, and the Verification Protocols to
confirm DLI achievement; and

(f) the ESCP.

In case of any conflict between the provisions of this Agreement and those of the Operational
Manual, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.

Verification Agent for Scalable DLIs.

The Borrower, through DPOMEB, shall appoint a verification agent for the Scalable DLIs that is
acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with the terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.

The Borrower, through DPOMEB, shall ensure that the verification agent referred to in the
preceding paragraph shall: (a) verify the data and other evidence supporting the achievement(s) of
one or more Scalable DLIs and recommend corresponding payments to be made, as applicable, in
accordance with the Verification Protocol agreed with the Bank; and (b) submit to the DPOMFB

the corresponding verification reports in a timely manner and in form and substance satisfactory to
the Bank.

Environmental and Social Standards.

The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the Environmental and
Social Standards, in a manner acceptable to the Bank.

Without limitation upon paragraph 1 above, the Borrower shall ensure that the Project is
implemented in accordance with the Environmental and Social Commitment Plan (““ESCP”), in a
manner acceptable to the Bank. To this end, the Borrower shall ensure that:

(a) the measures and actions specified in the ESCP are implemented with due diligence and
efficiency, and as further specified in the ESCP;

(b) sufficient funds are available to cover the costs of implementing the ESCP;

(c) policies, procedures and qualified staff are maintained to enable it to implement the ESCP,
as further specified in the ESCP; and

(d) the ESCP or any provision thereof, is not amended, revised or waived, except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree in writing and the Borrower has, thereafter, disclosed the revised
ESCP.

In case of any inconsistencies between the ESCP and the provisions of this Agreement, the
provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.
The Borrower shall:

(a)

(b)

take all measures necessary on its part to collect, compile, and furnish to the Bank, through
regular reports, with the frequency specified in the ESCP, and promptly in a separate report
or reports, if so requested by the Bank, information on the status of compliance with the
ESCP and the management tools and instruments referred to therein, all such reports in
form and substance acceptable to the Bank, setting out, inter alia: (i) the status of
implementation of the ESCP; (ii) conditions, if any, which interfere or threaten to interfere
with the implementation of the ESCP; and (iii) corrective and preventive measures taken
or required to be taken to address such conditions; and

promptly notify the Bank of any incident or accident related to or having an impact on the
Project which has, or is likely to have, a significant adverse effect on the environment, the
affected communities, the public or workers, in accordance with the ESCP, the instruments
referenced therein and the Environmental and Social Standards.

The Borrower shall maintain and publicize the availability of a grievance mechanism, in form and
substance satisfactory to the Bank, to hear and determine fairly and in good faith all complaints
raised in relation to the Project, and take all measures necessary to implement the determinations
made by such mechanism in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.

Section II.

Section III.

A.

Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation

The Borrower, through DPOMEB, shall furnish to the Bank each Project Report not later than forty-
five days (45) after the end of each calendar semester, covering the calendar semester.

Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

General.

Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and in accordance
with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter (““DFIL”), the Borrower may withdraw
the proceeds of the Loan to: (a) finance Eligible Expenditures; and (b) pay: (i) the Front-end Fee;
and (ii) each Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar premium; in the amount allocated and, if
applicable, up to the percentage set forth against each Category of the following table:
B.

Amount of the Loan
Allocated
(expressed in USD)

Category Percentage of Expenditures
to be financed
(inclusive of Taxes, except
for any Taxes levied for

financial transactions

(1) Goods, non-consulting 9,125,000 100%
services, consulting services,
Training and Operating Costs
for Parts 1 and 3 of the Project
(2) ST Subsidies under Part 2 of 140,500,000 100% of the amount of the
the Project oo ene Loan allocated to each DLI, as
set forth in Schedule 4

(3) Front-end Fee 375,000 Amount payable pursuant to

    
 
  

       
    
    

   
  
   
  

               

         
 
   
    

  
    
    

2.07 (b) of the General
Conditions
Amount due _ pursuant to
Section 4.05 (c) of the General
Conditions

TOTAL AMOUNT 150,000,000 ae ee ee

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.

            
     
 

Section 2.03 of this Agreement
in accordance with Section
(4) Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar premium

 
  
 

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A above, no withdrawal shall be made:

(a) for payments made prior to the Signature Date, except that withdrawals up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed $30,000,000 may be made for payments incurred prior to this date,
but on or after the date falling one year prior to the Signature Date, for Eligible
Expenditures under Category (2), provided that DLI Target 1.1 (as set forth in Schedule 4)
has been achieved and verified as per paragraph B.1(b) of this Section;

(b) for payments under Category (2) with respect to each DLI Target, as set forth in Schedule
4, for which a withdrawal request has been submitted, unless the Borrower, through
DPOMEB, has also submitted:

(i) evidence, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, of the ST Subsidies
incurred, as presented in a ST Subsidies Spending Report; and

(ii) supporting documentation confirming the Borrower’s achievement of the
respective DLI Target or DLI Targets in form and substance, as further elaborated
in Schedule 4, and as set forth in the Verification Protocols, including, but not
limited to, a report issued by an independent agent, acceptable to the Bank,
confirming the degree of achievement of Scalable DLIs;

(c) for payments under Category (2) with respect to:

(i) DLI Target 1.3 and DLI Target 1.4, until six (6) months after the Effective Date;
(ii) DLI Target 1.5, DLI Target 1.6, DLI Target 3.1, and DLI Target 4.1, until nine (9)
months after the Effective Date;

(iii) | DLI Target 1.7, DLI Target 2.1, DLI Target 3.2, and DLI Target 4.2, until twelve
(12) months after the Effective Date; and

(iv) DLI Target 2.2, DLI Target 3.3, and DLI Target 4.3, until eighteen (18) months
after the Effective Date.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph B.1 (b) of this Section, in the event that the Bank is
not satisfied that any or various DLI Target(s) set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement has/have
been achieved by the end of the respective DLI Target Period, then the Bank may, at any time, by
notice to the Borrower, decide, in its sole discretion, to:

(a) in the case of Scalable DLIs, authorize partial disbursement of the Allocated Amount for
said DLI, for amounts corresponding to the degree of achievement of at least the minimum DLI
Target defined for the respective Scalable DLI, calculated in accordance with the procedures set
forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement and the Verification Protocols;

(b) withhold all or a portion of the Allocated Amount(s) allocated to said DLI Target(s) until
such DLI Target(s) has/have been satisfactorily met; or

(c) cancel all or a portion of the Allocated Amount(s) corresponding to said DLI Target(s).

If, at any time, the Bank determines that any portion of the amounts withdrawn by the Borrower
was made: (i) for ineligible expenditures; or (ii) not in compliance with the provisions of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall promptly refund any such amount to the Bank as the Bank shall

specify by notice to the Borrower. The Bank shall cancel such refunded amount.

The Closing Date is June 30, 2022.
SCHEDULE 3
Disbursement-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule — Level Repayment

Subject to the provisions of Section 3.03 of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall repay each
Disbursed Amount in semiannual installments payable on each February 15 and August 15, the
first installment to be payable on the eleventh (11th) Payment Date following the Maturity Fixing
Date for the Disbursed Amount and the last installment to be payable on the sixty-third (63th)
Payment Date following the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed Amount. Each installment,
except for the last one, shall be equal to one-fifty-third (1/53th) of the Disbursed Amount. The last
installment shall be equal to the remaining outstanding amount of the Disbursed Amount.

If any one or more installments of principal of the Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to the
provisions of paragraph | of this Schedule, be payable after August 15, 2053, the Borrower shall
also pay on such date the aggregate amount of all such installments.

The Bank shall notify the Loan Parties of the amortization schedule for each Disbursed Amount
promptly after the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed Amount.
SCHEDULE 4

DISBURSEMENT-LINKED INDICATORS

DLI Targets expected to be achieved in

Semester 2 Semester 1 Semester 2 Semester 1 Semester 2

     
      

      

    

(CY 2019) (CY 2020) (CY 2020) (CY 2021) (CY 2021)

    
     
   
    
 

    
         
         
   
   
   
  
 
 
   
 
  
    
   
  

    
       
  
        
  

   
   
     
        
   
  
  
 

 
  
   
     
    
       
    
   
    
 

DLI Target 1.1:
Bipartite agency

DLI Target 1.3:
Data sharing

DLI Target 1.5:
Protocols with

DLI Target 1.7:
Competencies of

   
   
    
   
  

 

     
   
   
  
  
  
    
  

  
  
  
  
 

DLI 1: Package of institutional | to regulate agreement unified criteria ST monitoring
milestones, administrative electricity between MoE and procedures to | and managing the
procedures and standards distribution in the | and SINTyS assess ST integrated users’
AMBA created signed, and inclusion by database have
report with claims and ad hoc | been formally
exchanged data | mechanisms integrated in an
issued by DPSS__| elaborated by existing
DPSP and institutional area
officially of the PBA ora
communicated to | new specific area
the Regulatory has been formally
Agencies created for this

purpose

$30,000,000 $10,000,000 $5,000,000 SiIAMAO Ee

DLI Target 1.2: DLI Target 1.4: | DLI Target 1.6:

  
 
  
   
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
   
   
   

   
   
  
   
  
  
  
   
  
 

   
    
  

    
   
   
  
 
    
  
  

   
   
  
  
   
  

Data sharing Instruction for Integrated
agreements re-surveying (re- | electricity users’
between the MoE | empadronamiento) | database created.
and each of unidentified Standard reports
OCEBA and users issued by based on the
ENRE, DPSP and database
respectively, communicated published in a
signed, and to the public official
reports with the Regulatory website of the
exchanged data Agencies. PBA

   
   

issued by DPSS

$22,100,000 $10,000,000 $7,000,000

Allocated Amount DLI 1 $52,100,000 $20,000,000 $12,000,000 $7,000,000 spar}
DLI Targets expected to be achieved in

Semester 2 Semester | Semester 2 Semester 1 Semester 2

     
    
 

     

  
     
    
  
   
   
     
     
   
      
   
   
   
 

   

(CY 2019) (CY 2020) (CY 2020) (CY 2021) (CY 2021)

DLI2 | Percentage of electricity users with ST included by claims and ad hoc additional assessment mechanisms
(i.e., non-automatic mechanisms) according to reports issued by DPSS based on data provided by the
Regulatory Agencies

DLI Target 2.1 DLI Target 2.2
15% 10%
(Expected (Expected
Reduction: 3.3%) Reduction:
8.3%, minus
any actual
reduction
achieved in
prior DLI
Target Periods)

Pe a ede aa. | S|. eee

   
 

    

   

   
  
  
    

Baseline: 18.3%

    
 

DLI3 | Number of a ee oe users without identification data according to reports issued by DS based on data
collected and cross-checked a ee oe SINTyS

     
    
   
   
   
  
  
  
    
     
   
  
    
  

   
 
 
     
  
  

    
   
   
    
    
  

      
   
    
 

 

    
  
  
  

Baseline: 831,254 DLI Target 3.1 DLI Target 3.2 DLI Target 3.3
760,000 705,000 630,000
(Expected (Expected (Expected
Reduction: Reduction: Reduction:
71,254) 126, 254 minus 201, 254 minus
any actual any actual
reduction achieved reduction
in prior DLI Target achieved in
Periods) prior DLI
Target Periods)

Allocated Amount DLI 3* Pe Sit artsy $7,000,000 $6,500,000 $6,000,000

DLI 4 Number of electricity users with missing socio-economic data according to reports issued by DPSS
based on data collected and cross-checked by SINTyS

Baseline: 834,778 DLI Target 4.1 DLI Target 4.2 DLI Target 4.3
770,000 724,000 630,000
(Expected (Expected (Expected
Reduction: Reduction: Reduction:
64,778) 110, 778 minus 204,778 minus
any actual any actual
reduction achieved reduction
in prior DLI Target achieved in
Periods) prior DLI
Target Periods

Total disbursements
$52,100,000 $20,000,000 $26,000,000 $25,000,000 $17,400,000

*Disbursement Formula for Scalable DLIs (DLI 2, DLI 3 and DLI 4): The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw, upon
achievement of a minimum of 70% of any Expected Reduction (as set forth in the table above) in the respective Semester, an
amount equivalent to 70% of the Allocated Amount for the respective DLI Target; and upon achievement of each additional 10%
of the Expected Reduction, an additional amount equivalent to 10% of the Allocated Amount for the respective DLI Target, up to
the total Allocated Amount for such DLI Target.

   
     
   
   
   
  
  
   
 

     
  
  
 

  
    
  
  
  
 
 
 

 

     
   
   
  
  
 

    
 

13

 
APPENDIX

Definitions

‘

hs

“Allocated Amount” means an amount of the Loan allocated to each DLI Target, expressed
in USD, and as set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, which may be withdrawn
following the achievement of the respective DLI Target; and “Allocated Amounts” means
the plural thereof.

“AMBA” means Area Metropolitana de Buenos Aires, the metropolitan area formed by the
autonomous city of Buenos Aires and selected municipalities of the Province of Buenos
Aires under the jurisdiction of the Regulatory Agencies, as applicable.

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and Corruption
in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006
and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.

“CABA” means the Autonomous City of Buenos Aires.

“CAMMESA” means Compania Administradora del Mercado Mayorista, the Electricity
Wholesale Market Managing Company of the Argentine Republic.

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section III.A of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.

“CY” means calendar year, which begins on January | and ends on December 31.

“DFIL” means the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter referred to in Section
III.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Disbursement-Linked Indicator” or “DLI” means each disbursement-linked indicator set
forth in the first column of the table depicted in Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and “DLIs”
means, collectively, more than one such indicator.

“Disbursement-Linked Indicator Target” and the acronym “DLI Target” means any one of
the targets to be achieved under each DLI, as set forth in the table in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement; and “DLI Targets” means, collectively, more than one such target.

“DLI Target Period” means the specific semester in which the corresponding DLI Target
is expected to be achieved, as set forth in the table depicted in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.

“DPOMFB” means Direccién Provincial de Organismos Multilaterales y Financiamiento

Bilateral, the Borrower’s Provincial Directorate of Multilateral Organizations and Bilateral
Financing under MoE, or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.

14
eS

16.

17.

20.

oe

“DPSS” means Direccién Provincial de Subsidios y Subvenciones, the Borrower’s
Provincial Directorate of Subsidies under MoE, or any successor thereto acceptable to the
Bank.

“DPSP” means Direccidn Provincial de Servicios Publicos, the Borrower’s Provincial
Directorate of Public Services under its Ministry of Infrastructure and Public Services, or
any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.

“ENRE” means Ente Nacional de Regulacién de la Energia Eléctrica, the National
Regulatory Agency for the Electricity Sector of the Argentine Republic.

“Environmental and Social Commitment Plan” or the acronym “ESCP” means the
Borrower’s environmental and social commitment plan, acceptable to the Bank, dated July
19, 2019, which sets out a summary of the material measures and actions to address the
potential environmental and social risks and impacts of the Project, including the timing of
the actions and measures, institutional, staffing, training, monitoring and reporting
arrangements, and any instruments to be prepared thereunder; as the ESCP may be revised
from time to time, with prior written agreement of the Bank, and such term includes any
annexes or schedules to such plan.

“Environmental and Social Standards” means, collectively: (i) “Environmental and Social
Standard 1: Assessment and Management of Environmental and Social Risks and
Impacts”; (ii) “Environmental and Social Standard 2: Labor and Working Conditions”; (iii)
“Environmental and Social Standard 3: Resource Efficiency and Pollution Prevention and
Management”; (iv) “Environmental and Social Standard 4: Community Health and
Safety”; (v) “Environmental and Social Standard 5: Land Acquisition, Restrictions on Land
Use and Involuntary Resettlement”; (vi) “Environmental and Social Standard 6:
Biodiversity Conservation and Sustainable Management of Living Natural Resources”;
(vii) “Environmental and Social Standard 7: Indigenous Peoples/Sub-Saharan Historically
Underserved Traditional Local Communities”; (viii) “Environmental and Social Standard
8: Cultural Heritage”; (ix) “Environmental and Social Standard 9: Financial
Intermediaries”; (x) “Environmental and Social Standard 10: Stakeholder Engagement and
Information Disclosure”; effective on October 1, 2018, as published by the Bank at
http://www.worldbank.org/en/projects-operations/environmental-and-social-framework.

 

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project Financing”, dated December
14, 2018.

“Mok” means Ministerio de Economia, the Borrower’s Ministry of Economy, or any
successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.

“OCEBA” means Organismo de Control de la Energia, the Borrower’s control agency for
electrical energy.

“Operating Costs” means reasonable incremental recurrent expenditures that would not
have been incurred by the Borrower absent the Project, for Project administration costs
(including office rent), operation and maintenance of office equipment, banking fees, non-

15
7

a3.

24.

25.

26.

21.

28.

29.

30.

ai.

52.

durable goods, and salaries of civil servants assigned to carry out administrative
responsibilities under the Project.

“Operational Manual” means the Borrower’s manual, dated July 18, 2019, acceptable to
the Bank and referred to in Section I.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as said manual
may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank.

“PBA” means Province of Buenos Aires (the Borrower).

“PMT” means the Project Management Team under DPOMEFB referred to in Section I.A.1
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.

“Procurement Regulations” means, for purposes of paragraph 85 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the “World Bank Procurement Regulations for IPF Borrowers”, dated
July 2016, revised November 2017 and August 2018.

“Regulatory Agencies” means ENRE, OCEBA, and the bipartite agency referred to in DLI
Target 1.1, as set forth in Schedule 4.

“Signature Date” means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the Bank
signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to “the date of the Loan
Agreement” in the General Conditions.

“Scalable DLIs” means DLI 2, DLI 3, and DLI 4 set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement,
for which partial disbursement of the respective amounts allocated may be requested in
increments, as further detailed in Schedule 4 to this Agreement and the Verification
Protocols.

“SINTyS National Directorate” means Direccién Nacional del Sistema de Identificacion
Nacional Tributario y Social, the National Directorate of the System for Tax and Social
Identification under the National Council for Coordination of Social Policy of the Chief of
Cabinet Office of the Argentine Republic, or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.

“ST” means the Borrower’s social tariff for electricity, as set forth in the ST Legal
Framework.

“ST Legal Framework” means: (a) the following Resolutions issued by the Ministry of
Energy and Mining of the Argentine Republic: (i) Resolution No. 6/2016 dated January
25, 2016; (ii) Resolution No. 7/2016 dated January 27, 2016; (iii) Resolution No.
2019/2016 dated October 11, 2016; and (iv) Resolution No. 122/2018 dated September 3,
2018; (b) Resolution No. 366/2018 dated December 27, 2018 issued by the Government
Secretariat of Energy of the Ministry of Treasury of the Argentine Republic; and (c) Law
No. 27.469 of the Argentine Republic (Consenso Fiscal).

“ST Subsidies” means payments made by the Borrower to CAMMESA to finance the ST

for eligible beneficiaries, subject to the requirements for Bank financing set forth in
Schedule 4, the Verification Protocols, and the DFIL, including, but not limited to,

16
ao:

34.

35:

beneficiary inclusion and exclusion criteria controlled and verified by the SINTyS National
Directorate.

“ST Subsidies Spending Report” means the report referred to in Section III.B.1 (b) of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement on the spending status of the ST Subsidies in relation to its
budget, which is prepared by the Borrower in accordance with the DFIL and the
Operational Manual.

“Training” means expenditures (other than those for consulting services) incurred by the
Borrower to finance reasonable transportation costs and per diem of trainees and trainers,
training registration fees, training materials, and rental of training facilities and equipment
under Parts | and/or 3 of the Project.

“Verification Protocol” means the set of protocols agreed with the Bank, setting forth the
actions and mechanisms required for verification of DLI Target achievement, included in
the Operational Manual, as the same may be amended from time to time with the agreement
of the Bank.
