Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

 

 

SCF-SREP LOAN NUMBER TF0A7640

Strategic Climate Fund
Scaling- Up Renewable Energy Program

Loan Agreement

(Bangladesh Scaling-up Renewable Energy Project)
between
People’s Republic of Bangladesh
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION

acting as an implementing entity of the Scaling-up Renewable Energy Program under the
Strategic Climate Fund

Dated August 29, 2019
SCF-SREP LOAN NUMBER TF0A7640
STRATEGIC CLIMATE FUND LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT dated August 29, 2019, entered into between: PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF
BANGLADESH (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(“World Bank”), acting not in its individual capacity but solely in its capacity as an implementing
entity of the Scaling-up Renewable Energy Program (“SREP”) under the Strategic Climate Fund
CSCF”).

WHEREAS: (A) by agreement of even date herewith, the World Bank has agreed to extend to
the Borrower a financing in the amount of One Hundred Twelve Million Nine Hundred Thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 112,900,000 (“IDA Financing”) for financing the Respective Part of
the Project described in Schedule | to this Agreement (“IDA Financing Agreement”);

(B) by agreement of even date herewith, the World Bank, acting as an implementing entity of
the Scaling-up Renewable Energy Project under the Strategic Climate Fund has agreed to extend to
the Borrower a grant in the amount of two million eight hundred seventy thousand United States
Dollars ($2,870,000) (“Grant”) for financing the Respective Part of the Project described in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“SCF Grant Agreement”); and

(C) the Borrower has requested, the World Bank to provide additional financial assistance
towards the financing of the Project from the SCF, as further described in Article III of this
Agreement.

The Borrower and the World Bank hereby agree as follows:

Article I
Standard Conditions; Definitions

1.01. The Standard Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.

1.02. Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have the
meanings ascribed to them in the Standard Conditions, in the Appendix to this Agreement
or in the IDA Financing Agreement.

Article II
Loan

2.01. The World Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of twenty-six million three hundred eighty
thousand United States Dollars ($26,380,000) (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”).

2.02. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03.

2.04.

2.05.

2.06.

2.07.

3.01.

3.02.

4.01.

on

The Loan is funded out of the resources made available to the World Bank as an
implementing entity of the SCF. In accordance with Section 3.02 of the Standard Conditions
(as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement), the World Bank’s payment obligations in
connection with this Agreement are limited to the amount of funds made available to it from
the SCF trust fund, and the Borrower’s right to withdraw the Loan proceeds is subject to the
availability of such funds.

The Service Charge payable by the Borrower on the Withdrawn Loan Balance shall be equal
to one-tenth of one percent (1/10 of 1%) per annum.

The Payment Dates are January | and July 1 in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the repayment schedule
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

The Payment Currency is USD.

Article II
The Project

The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall cause the Part 2 of the Project to be carried out by the Project Implementing
Entity, i.e., IDCOL, in accordance with the provisions of Article II of the Standard
Conditions, the Project Agreement and the Operations Manual, as the same may be agreed
from time to time with the approval of the World Bank.

Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as the
Borrower and the World Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

Article IV
Additional Remedies

The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:

(a) IDCOL’s By-Laws has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so
as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the Project Implementing Entity to
perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.

(b) The Borrower has taken or permitted to be taken any action which would prevent

or interfere with the performance by the Project Implementing Entity of its
obligations under the Project Agreement or under the IDA Financing Agreement.

(c) A representation made by the Project Implementing Entity in or pursuant to the

Project Agreement, or any representation or statement furnished by the Project
Implementing Entity and intended to be relied upon by the World Bank in making
the Loan was incorrect in any material respect.
4.

(d) The World Bank has suspended in whole or in part the right of the Project

Implementing Entity to make withdrawals under any agreement with the World
Bank because of a failure by the Project Implementing Entity to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement or any other agreement with the World Bank.

(e) the Project Implementing Entity has failed to perform its obligations under the

Subsidiary Financing Agreement and the Subsidiary Grant Agreement.

4.02. The Additional Events of Acceleration consist of the following:

5.01.

5.02.

5.03.

6.01.

(a) The event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs.

(b) The event specified in paragraphs (b), (c), (d) and (e) of Section 4.01 of this
Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of sixty (60) days after notice of
the event has been given by the World Bank to the Borrower.

Article V
Effectiveness; Termination

The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:

(a) The IDA Financing Agreement has been executed and all conditions precedent to
its effectiveness have been fulfilled.

The Additional Legal Matters consist of the following:

(a) The Subsidiary Financing Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the
Borrower and IDCOL and is legally binding upon the Borrower and IDCOL in
accordance with its terms.

(b) The Subsidiary Grant Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the
Borrower and the IDCOL and is legally binding upon the Borrower and IDCOL in
accordance with its terms.

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement.

Article VI
Borrower’s Representative; Addresses

The Borrower’s Representative referred to in Section 10.02 of the Standard Conditions is
the Senior Secretary/Secretary, or any Additional Secretary, or Joint Secretary/Joint Chief,
Deputy Secretary/Deputy Chief, Senior Assistant Secretary/Senior Assistant Chief,
Assistant Secretary/Assistant Chief of the Economic Relations Division of the Borrower’s
Ministry of Finance.
-4-
6.02. The Borrower’s Address referred to in Section 10.01 of the Standard Conditions is:
Economic Relations Division
Ministry of Finance
Sher-e-Bangla Nagar
Dhaka 1207
Bangladesh
Facsimile: E-mail:
+88029 180788 / +88029180671 secretary @erd.gov.bd
6.03. The World Bank’s Address referred to in Section 10.01 of the Standard Conditions is:

International Development Association

1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America

Telex: Facsimile:

INDEVAS 248423 (MCI) or 1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 64145 (MCI)

AGREED at Dhaka, People’s Republic of Bangladesh, as of the day and year first above
written.

PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
% G2
Authorized Representative
Name:_Monowar Ahmed

Title: Secre

 

INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
acting as an implementing entity of the Scaling-up
Renewable Energy Progr nder the Strategic Climate Fund

By / 7 /.
Authorized Representative

Name: Dandan Chen

Title: _ Acting Country Director
-5-

SCHEDULE 1
Project Description

The objective of the Project is to increase installed generation capacity of, and mobilize
financing for, renewable energy in Bangladesh.

The Project consists of the following parts as specified in the IDA Financing Agreement:

Part 1. Feni Utility-Scale Solar PV

l.a. Support the establishment of a pilot solar PV generation 50 MW plant and associated
infrastructure, including power evacuation lines, pooling sub-stations, a transmission bay extension
at sub-station, civil engineering structures for mitigating flooding risks and roads within the Project
Site in the Feni District to be developed by EGCB to support the first phase of the development of a
renewable energy park.

Part 2. Renewable Energy Financing Facility

2.a. _REFF establishment

Set up and operationalize a Renewable Energy Financing Facility (REFF), as a local currency
financing facility anchored within IDCOL and managed by IDCOL to help address access to finance
constraints of public-private partnerships (PPPs) and private sector developers of renewable energy
projects within the territory of the Borrower by offering standard financing products to PPPs and
domestic and international private developers/bidders for financing: (i) utility-scale solar PV energy
sub-projects; and (ii) rooftop solar PV sub-projects as per the financial terms and conditions
specified in the Operations Manual.

2.b. IDCOL capacity building and market development

Provision of technical assistance to support: (i) developing new business models and financing
instruments to mobilize financing for renewable energy and strengthening IDCOL’s capacity; (ii)
strengthening IDCOL’s capacity for technical due diligence and supervision of utility-scale
renewable energy and rooftop solar PV; (iii) creating a market and developing a pipeline of rooftop
PV sub-projects; and (iv) Project management costs of IDCOL.

Part 3. Technical Assistance

3.a. Support the provision of technical assistance and capacity building activities of SREDA in
coordination with IDCOL to improve the business and regulatory environment to scale-up renewable
energy and support the development of a project pipeline in particular for private sector participation
by: (i) enabling resource assessment and contribute to data collection and validation to refine existing
satellite based data to inform policy makers and potential solar/wind developers to de-risk
investments; (ii) support preparatory activities (like feasibility and pre-feasibility studies,
environmental assessments and assistance in the tendering process) for proposed utility-scale
renewable energy parks and develop alternate options at other facilities and support the capacity
 

building of SREDA; (iii)
market, promoting and stren

 

i

creating and scaling up of a rooftop solar PV_ enabling
ening the regulatory policies and regulations in relation to the same,

and support implementation of the net metering policy; (iv) enhance the capacity of the relevant
government agencies by providing inter alia training and usage of tools for national renewable
energy development; (v) supporting feasibility studies and deployment of a small-scale pilots of
renewable energy technologies including a waste-to-energy technology pilot; and (vi) supporting the
project management activities of SREDA.

 

 
aT.

SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Section I. Institutional and Other Arrangements

A.

Institutional Arrangements.

Section 1.A (Jmplementation Arrangements) of Schedule 2 to the IDA Financing Agreement
is hereby incorporated by reference and shall apply mutatis mutandis to this Agreement and
the Borrower undertakes to comply with the provisions thereof to the same extent as if such
provisions have been set out in full in this Agreement.

Subsidiary Agreement(s)

To facilitate the carrying out of Part 2.a of the Project, the Borrower shall make the proceeds
of the Loan available to the Project Implementing Entity as a loan under a subsidiary
financing agreement between the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity, under
terms and conditions approved by the World Bank, which shall include the obligation of the
Borrower to on-lend to the Project Implementing Entity, out of the proceeds of the Loan, an
amount not exceeding the amount of twenty four million eight hundred eighty thousand
United States Dollars ($24,880,000), or such other amounts as shall be agreed from time to
time in writing with the Association (“Subsidiary Financing Agreement”). The principal
amount of the credit made available under the Subsidiary Financing Agreement (“Subsidiary
Credit”) shall be: (a) denominated and repayable in Bangladeshi Taka; (b) charged interest
on the principal amount withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at the rate of three
percent 3% per annum; (c) repayable over a period not exceeding twenty (20) years from
the date of the Subsidiary Financing Agreement, inclusive of a grace period not exceeding
five (5) years; and (d) the foreign exchange risk is to be borne by the Borrower. It is however
clarified that for the purpose of on-lending, the Subsidiary Financing Agreement shall
include the proceeds of both the Loan and the Financing.

To facilitate the carrying out of Part 2.b of the Project, the Borrower shall make part of the
proceeds of the Loan available to the Project Implementing — Entity
as a grant under a subsidiary grant agreement between the Borrower and _ the
Project Implementing Entity (“Subsidiary Grant Agreement”), under terms and conditions
approved by the Association, which shall include the obligation of the Borrower to on-grant
to the Project Implementing Entity, out of the proceeds of the Financing, an amount not to
exceed one million five hundred thousand Dollars ($1,500,000); or such other amounts as
shall be agreed from time to time in writing with the Association.

The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement(s) in such manner as
to protect the interests of the Borrower and the World Bank and to accomplish the purposes
of the Loan. Except as the World Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign,
amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Agreement(s) or any of its provisions.
Anti-Corruption

The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions
of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.

Sub-projects under Part 2 of the Project

The Project Implementing Entity shall ensure that Sub-loans are made available to the
Beneficiaries selected in accordance with eligibility criteria and procedures acceptable to
the World Bank, and further elaborated in the Operations Manual which shall include the
following:

(a) No proposed Sub-project shall be eligible for financing under a Sub-Loan to a
Beneficiary unless IDCOL shall have determined on the basis of an appraisal carried
out in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the World Bank and elaborated in
the Operational Manual, that:

(i) the proposed Sub-project concerns the financing of projects that: (A)
correspond to the relevant requirements and eligibility criteria as specified
in this Agreement and the Operations Manual, or is otherwise technically
feasible and economically and financially viable; and (B) if safeguards
instruments for the Sub-project is (or are) required, such safeguards
instruments have been prepared and approved by the World Bank in
accordance with the provisions of Section I.E of this Schedule, and all
measures required to be taken in accordance with said Section prior to
commencement of the activities covered by the safeguards instruments,
have been taken; and

(ii) | the proposed Beneficiary is: (A) a natural person; or (B) a legal entity
established and operating under the laws of the Borrower, with the
organization, management, technical capacity and financial resources
necessary to carry out the proposed Subproject and has prepared a
satisfactory financing plan and budget, and a satisfactory implementation
plan for the proposed Subproject.

Sub-Loans

The Project Implementing Entity shall make each Sub-loan under a Sub—loan Agreement
with the respective Beneficiary on terms and conditions approved by the World Bank, which
shall include the following:

(a) The Project Implementing Entity shall obtain rights adequate to protect its
interests and those of the World Bank and the Project Implementing Entity,
including the right to:

(i) suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to use the proceeds of the
Sub-Loan, or obtain a refund of all or any part of the amount of the Sub-
(ii)

Safeguards

-9-

Loan then withdrawn, upon the Beneficiary's failure to perform any of its
obligations under the Sub-Loan Agreement; and

require each Beneficiary to: (A) carry out its project with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, economic, financial,
managerial, environmental and social standards and practices satisfactory
to the World Bank, including in accordance with the provisions of: (1) the
Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to recipients of loan proceeds other
than the Borrower; and (2) the Safeguards Instruments, if any, required for
the project; (B) provide, promptly as needed, the resources required for the
purpose; (C) maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate in accordance with indicators acceptable to the World
Bank, the progress of the project and the achievement of its objectives; (D)
(1) maintain a financial management system and prepare financial
statements, both in a manner adequate to reflect the operations, resources
and expenditures related to the project; and (2) at the request of the World
Bank or the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity, as the case may
be, have such financial statements audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the World Bank, and promptly furnish the statements as so
audited to the Borrower, the World Bank and the Project Implementing
Entity, as the case may be; (E) enable the Borrower, the Project
Implementing Entity, the World Bank, as the case may be, to inspect the
Sub-project, its operation and any relevant records and documents; and (F)
prepare and furnish to the Borrower, the Project Implementing Entity, the
World Bank, as the case may be, all such information as the Borrower, the
Project Implementing Entity, World Bank, shall reasonably request relating
to the foregoing.

The Borrower shall carry out the Project or cause it to be carried out by the Project
Implementing Entity, in accordance with the provisions of the ESMS.

The Borrower shall ensure that all technical assistance under the Project, application of
whose results would have environmental or social implications, shall only be undertaken
pursuant to terms of reference reviewed and found satisfactory by the World Bank, such
terms of reference to ensure that the technical assistance takes into account, and calls for
application of the World Bank's environmental and social safeguards policies and the
Borrower's own laws relating to the environment and social aspects.

Expenditures to be Exclusively Financed with Counterpart Funds

The Borrower shall ensure that:

(a) the proceeds of the Loan are not utilized for any purchase/acquisition of land; and

(b) the following Project expenditures are financed exclusively out of the Borrower’s
own resources, or the resources of the Project Implementing Entity or if applicable
he

-10-

the resources of the Beneficiary(ies) and, to this end, the Borrower/Project
Implementing Entity/Beneficiary(ies) as applicable shall provide, as promptly as
needed, the resources required therefor, namely; (i) all resettlkement and
rehabilitation compensation and other assistance to Affected Persons, in accordance
with the RAPs; (ii) Goods, Works, of the Project Implementing Entity including
purchase of vehicles; (iii) interest during construction; and (iv) recurrent
expenditures such as salaries other than as permitted under the Incremental
Operating Costs, workshop allowances, sitting allowances, cash per diems,
honoraria and fuel.

In the event of a conflict between the provisions of the Safeguards Instruments and those of
this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.

Section II. Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation

A.

Project Reports; Completion Report

The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project
Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.06 of the Standard Conditions and
on the basis of the indicators acceptable to the World Bank. Each Project Report shall cover
the period of one calendar semester and shall be furnished to the World Bank not later than
one month after the end of the period covered by such report.

The Borrower shall prepare the Completion Report in accordance with the provisions of
Section 2.06 of the Standard Conditions. The Completion Report shall be furnished to the
World Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date.

Financial Management; Financial Reports; Audits

The Borrower shall ensure that a financial management system is maintained in accordance
with the provisions of Section 2.07 of the Standard Conditions.

Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall ensure that
interim unaudited financial reports for the Project are prepared and furnished to the World
Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, covering the
quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the World Bank.

The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements for the Project audited in accordance with
the provisions of Section 2.07 (b) of the Standard Conditions. Each such audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the World Bank not later
than six (6) months after the end of such period.

Section III. Procurement

All goods, works, non-consulting services and consulting services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
requirements set forth or referred to in the Procurement Regulations and the provisions of
the Procurement Plan.
itt «
Section IV. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. General

hy The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions of
Article III of the Standard Conditions, this Section and such additional instructions as the
World Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “Disbursement
Guidelines for Investment Project Financing” dated February 2017, as revised from time to
time by the World Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such
instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.

om The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocations of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures
in each Category:

  
   
 
     
 
 

   
 

  
 
    
   
 

Amount of the Loan
Allocated (expressed
Category in USD)

(1) Sub-loans under Part 2.a of 24,880,000

the Project
1,500,000

Percentage of Expenditures to
be Financed
(inclusive of Taxes)
Up to 6% of total capital
expenditure for utility scale
solar PV sub-projects

    
   

     
  

    
 

Up to 12% of total capital
expenditure for rooftop PV
sub-projects

    
    
 
 

  

(2) Non-consulting services and
consulting services, Training
and Incremental Operating
Costs under Part 2.b of the
Project

TOTAL AMOUNT 26,380,000

B. Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

 
      

      

l. Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be made for
payments under Category (1) or (2) unless:

(a) for payments made prior to the Signature Date:

(i) withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed two million two
hundred and eighty thousand Dollars (USD2,280,000) may be made for
payments made prior to this date but on or after April 1, 2018, for Eligible
Expenditures under Category (1); and
sis

(ii) withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed five hundred
thousand Dollars (USD500,000) may be made for payments made
prior to this date but on or after April 1, 2018, for Eligible
Expenditures under Category (2).

(b) the Borrower submits evidence satisfactory to the Association showing that the

Operations Manual has been submitted by IDCOL in a manner satisfactory to the
Association.

(c) The Subsidiary Financing Agreement and the Subsidiary Grant Agreement has
been executed on behalf of the Borrower and IDCOL and all conditions precedent
to their effectiveness or to the right of the IDCOL to make withdrawals under these
agreement/s (other than the effectiveness of this Agreement) have been fulfilled.

De The Closing Date is January 31, 2024.

 

 

 
 

=F

SCHEDULE 3

Repayment Schedule

    

Principal Amount of the Loan
Date Payment Due repayable

expressed as a percentage

    
   
 

On each January | and July 1:

commencing July 1, 2029 to and including January 1,
2039

commencing July 1, 2039 to and including January 1,
2059

   

1%

 
      

2%

  

 
-14-

APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud
and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”, dated
October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.

“Environmental and Social Management Systems” and the acronym “ESMS” mean the
Environmental and Social Management Systems, prepared by IDCOL, acceptable to the
World Bank, duly disclosed on August 16, 2018, which sets forth the principles and
procedures, governing, inter alia: (i) screening for eligible activities under the Project; (ii)
screening for potential safeguard issues, including the required actions to prepare safeguard
documents, including, inter alia: Environmental and Social Management Plans when
required; and (iii) and the environmental protection measures, if any, required to be
undertaken in order to avoid or mitigate potential adverse environmental impacts; as said
framework and any annexes or schedules to such framework, as may be revised from time
to time with the prior written approval of the World Bank.

“IDCOL” means the Infrastructure Development Company Limited, a government-owned
non-banking financial institution established and existing under the Bangladesh Companies
Act (1994).

“IDCOL’s By-Laws” means IDCOL’s Articles of Association as amended to the date of this
Agreement.

“Incremental Operating Costs” means the reasonable costs required for the
day-to-day coordination, administration and supervision of the Project Implementing
Entity’s Respective Part of the Project activities, including leasing and/or routine repair
and/or maintenance of vehicles, equipment, facilities and office premises, office rent, office
supplies, utilities, consumables, communication expenses, translation, printing,
photocopying and postal expenses, bank charges, advertising expenses, insurance, costs of
clearing, forwarding, inspection, survey and transportation of goods, Project-related meeting
expenses, Project-related travel, expenses, and salaries of contracted Project staff of the
Project Implementing Entity provided that such Incremental Operating Costs are paid to the
eligible recipient through banking system (except for petty cash expenses following
Borrower’s existing policy).

“Operations Manual” means the operations manual to be adopted by the Project
Implementing Entity referred to in Section I.B of the Schedule to the Project Agreement,
containing detailed arrangements and procedures for the carrying out of the Project,
including inter alia (a) the criteria to select Beneficiary(ies) (b) the procedures to select and
appraise Sub-projects and (c) the model form of _ the
Sub-Loan Agreement; as such manual may be revised from time to time with
the written consent of the Association...
Li

12.

i.

14.

LD,

17.

a» AH
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, dated

November 27, 2018 and provided for under Section IV of the Procurement Regulations, as
the same may be updated from time to time in agreement with the World Bank.

“Procurement Regulations” means the “World Bank Procurement Regulations for IPF
Borrowers”, dated July 2016, revised November 2017.

“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Association and IDCOL relating to
the implementation of the Respective Part of the Project under the SCF.

“Project Implementing Entity” means for the purpose of this Agreement, IDCOL with which
the World Bank will enter into a Project Agreement.

“REFF” means the Renewable Energy Financing Facility to be anchored within IDCOL’s
Renewable Energy Department for the purpose of providing Sub-Loans to Beneficiary(ies)
for financing the Sub-Projects (as hereinafter defined).

“Respective Part of the Project” means:

(i) for the purposes of financing under the IDA Financing:

(a) in respect of EGCB: Part 1 of the Project; and

(b) in respect of IDCOL: Part 2 of the Project;

(ii) for the purposes of financing under the Strategic Climate Fund;

(c) in respect of IDCOL: Part 2 of the Project; and
(d) in respect of SREDA: Part 3 of the Project.

“SREP Design Document” is the design for the Scaling-up Renewable Energy Program,
approved by the Strategic Climate Fund Trust Fund Committee and issued on June 1, 2009,
and as said design may be amended from time to time in accordance with its terms.

“Scaling-up Renewable Energy Program” or “SREP” means the program established under
the Strategic Climate Fund in accordance with the Governance Framework for the Strategic
Climate Fund for the purposes set forth in the SREP Design Document.

“Sub-Loans” means any loan to be made or proposed to be made by IDCOL to a Beneficiary
out of the proceeds of the Loan to finance a Sub-Project and “Sub-Loans” means
collectively, all such loans.

“Sub-loan Agreement” means an agreement between IDCOL and the developer for the
purpose of providing a Sub-loan for the Subproject.
7

20.

bk

22.

23.

= 1 =

“Sub-Project” means a specific investment identified and proposed by IDCOL or
developers that are selected to be financed under Part 2 of the Project in accordance with
criteria, requirements and procedures set out in the Operations Manual and the applicable
Safeguard Instrument, and have been procured in accordance with the terms of this
Agreement, including the Procurement Regulations and which is proposed to be carried out
by a developer, in whole or in part through the utilization of the proceeds of a Sub-Loan,
including but not limited to the following areas: (i) financing utility-scale solar PV sub-

' projects; and (ii) financing rooftop solar PV sub-projects and “Sub-Projects” shall refer

collectively to all such Sub-Projects.

“Subsidiary Financing Agreement” shall mean the agreement referred to in Section I.B of
the Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make part of the
proceeds of the Loan to the Project Implementing Entity as a loan.

“Subsidiary Grant Agreement” shall mean the agreement referred to in Section I.B of the
Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make part of the
proceeds of the Loan to the Project Implementing Entity as a grant.

“Subsidiary Agreements” shall mean collectively the Subsidiary Financing Agreement and
the Subsidiary Grant Agreement.

“Standard Conditions” means the Standard Conditions for Loans Made by the World Bank
Out of the Climate Investment Funds, dated February 18, 2014, with the modifications set
forth in Section II of this Appendix.

“Training” means the reasonable costs required for the participation of personnel involved
in training activities, workshops and study tours under the Project which have been approved
by the Association in writing, on a semi-annual basis, including: (a) travel, hotel, and
subsistence costs for training, workshop and study tour participants provided that such
allowances are paid directly to the eligible recipient using the banking system; (b) costs
associated with rental of training and workshop facilities, preparation and reproduction of
training and workshop materials, costs of academic degree studies, and other costs directly
related to training course, workshop or study tour preparation and implementation provided
that such costs are paid directly to the eligible recipient using the banking system, but
excluding salaries of consultants, sitting and workshop allowances and honorarium of any
other nature. In the event that the Association cannot be informed on a semi-annual basis,
the prior approval of the Association in writing shall be taken on individual basis for any
costs arising out of such training activities, workshops and study tours.
