Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

 

OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

 

 

LOAN NUMBER 8909-IN

Loan Agreement

(Additional Financing for Dam Rehabilitation and Improvement Project)

between
INDIA
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
SBE

SRS ARE SURE PARP TIE TT?

 

LOAN AGREEMENT

Agreement dated as of the Signature Date, between INDIA (“Borrower”) and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”). The
Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:

1.01.

1.02.

201.

2.02.

2,03.

2.04.

2.05.

2.06.

2.07.

2.08.

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to and form
part of this Agreement.

Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions, the Original Financing
Agreement (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) and the Appendix to this
Agreement.

ARTICLE Il — LOAN

The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of one hundred thirty-seven million
United States dollars (USD 137,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to
time through a Currency Conversion (“Loan”), to assist in financing the activities described
in Schedule | to this Agreement (“Project”).

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section III of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.

The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.

The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Variable Spread or such rate as may apply
following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General Conditions.

The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.

(a) If on any given day, the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit (as
said terms are defined in sub-paragraphs (b)(ii) and (b)(iii) of this Section), the
Borrower shall pay to the Bank a surcharge at the rate of one half of one percent
(0.5%) per annum of the Allocated Excess Exposure Amount (as defined in sub-
paragraph (b)(i) of this Section) for each said day (“Exposure Surcharge”). The
Exposure Surcharge (if any) shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each
Payment Date.

(b) For purposes of this Section the following terms have the meanings set forth below:

 
 

|
|

3.01.

4.01.

4.02.

5.01.

6.01.

a.

(1) “Allocated Excess Exposure Amount” means for each day during which
the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit, the product of:
(A) the total amount of said excess; and (B) the ratio of all (or, if the Bank
so determines, a portion) of the Loan to the aggregate amount of all (or the
equivalent portions) of the loans made by the Bank to the Borrower, and
to other borrowers guaranteed by the Borrower that are also subject to an
exposure surcharge, as said excess and ratio are reasonably determined
from time to time by the Bank.

(11) “Standard Exposure Limit” means the standard limit on the Bank’s
financial exposure to the Borrower which, if exceeded, would subject the
Loan to the Exposure Surcharge, as determined from time to time by the
Bank.

(iii) | “Total Exposure” means for any given day, the Bank’s total financial
- exposure to the Borrower, as reasonably determined by the Bank.

ARTICLE If — PROJECT

The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower (through its Central Water Commission) shall, and shall cause the Project
Implementing Entities to, carry out its/their Respective Parts of the Project, in accordance
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and the Schedule to the Project Agreement.

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK

The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following: any of the Corporation’s
Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect
materially and adversely the ability of such Corporation to perform any of its obligations
under its Project Agreement.

The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following: the event specified in
Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of sixty (60) days
after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the Signature Date.
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
The Borrower’s Representative is any of the following officials, acting severally; the

Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary, or Under
Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs of the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance.

 
SPER ee peehb PRE BRAN RTS SN

MOON ani BPTI

oR RENN AE RL Ke

_pnewe ene

t
x
g
I
4
f
4
%

6.02.

6.03.

ie

For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Borrower’s address is:

Secretary to the Government of India
Department of Economic Affairs
Ministry of Finance

North Block

New Delhi 110 001, India; and

(b) the Borrower’s Electronic Address is:

Facsimile: E-mail:
+91-11-23094075 secy-dea@nic.in

For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Bank’s address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development

1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America; and

(b) the Bank’s Electronic Address is:

Telex: Facsimile: E-mail:
248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391 jahmad@worldbank.org
64145(MCI)

 
i
|
i

 

AGREED as of the Signature Date.

INDIA

By \

rized Representative

Name: S*@ME@L KeertrAR kKHAke

   

Title: A O87 0A0AZ SécReTARY

Date, OR 2 eet

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By Hina.

Authorized Representative

Name: TFunaids KPa A ewer

Title: COunTey WReEcrOR JAMA
Date: Arter B, 2619 _

 
ook Ne Re Sa REAR TARE PNA RA HEN ATES NS TO ERI A INN TNT ER ENS NI RRO SU ie og armen: SR SR: Aten: ee Ce apnea wll aennee eamervennonmmnisntsccneen - ee — ei

A> SELLE AAT TIE

Pa

|

SCHEDULE 1
Project Description

The objective of the Project is to improve the safety and operational performance of
selected existing dams in the territory of the participating states.

The Project consists of the same activities of the Original Project.

 
 

SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution .

Section I. Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional Arrangements
1. To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make the proceeds of the

Loan available to the Project Implementing Entities in a timely manner, in accordance with

the Borrower’s standard arrangements for development assistance to the States and

agencies of India.
2. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement and except as the

Borrower and the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall:

(a) carry out its Respective Part of the Project through its Central Water Commission
in accordance with the Project Implementation Plan, containing, inter alia, specific
provisions on detailed arrangements for the carrying out of the Project, including:
(i) the procurement, financial management and disbursement processes
thereunder; (ii) criteria for the identification, selection and planning of dam
rehabilitation and improvement activities under Part A of the Project; (iti) the
ESMF, GAAP, Procurement Plan and Financial Management Manual; and (iv) the
Key Performance Indicators; and

(b) not amend, delete or waive any provision of the Project Implementation Plan
without the prior written agreement between the Borrower and the Bank.

a The Borrower shall maintain at all times during Project implementation:

(a) the Dam Safety Organization within the Central Water Commission, and

(b) the Central Project Management Unit within the Dam Safety Rehabilitation
Directorate’s regular structure: (i) with functions, responsibilities and resources
acceptable to the Bank, including, inter alia, the responsibility of said unit to
coordinate and monitor the carrying out of the Project; (ii) led by a project director
and assisted by adequate professional and administrative staff (including
procurement, financial management, environmental and social development
specialists), in numbers and with experience and qualifications agreed to between
the Borrower and the Bank; and (iii) operating under terms of reference agreed to
between the Borrower and the Bank.

4. The Borrower shall:
(a) prepare and furnish to the Bank for its review and approval by 31 December of

each year until Project completion, commencing on December 31, 2018, an annual
work plan and budget for Project implementation for the following fiscal year and
thereafter carry out such annual plan considering the Bank’s comments thereon:

 
i.

(b) take all necessary steps to ensure all Project activities for which the Project
Implementing Entities are responsible pursuant to the terms of the Project
Agreement, are implemented in accordance with the Schedule to the Project
Agreement;

(c) not use any Project funds to increase the designed storage capacity of reservoirs;
and

(d) maintain, through its Central Water Commission, the management and engineering
consulting firm aimed at providing Project management assistance, including
assistance to the Central Project Management Unit in its day-to-day functioning
and its liaising with the State Project Management Units.

B. Social and Environmental Safeguards

- The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions
of the ESMF and all Safeguard Assessments and Plans, in a manner satisfactory to the
Bank.

ra The Borrower shall not amend, abrogate or waive, or permit to be amended, abrogated or

waived, the ESMF or any Safeguard Assessments and Plans, unless the Bank has provided
its prior approval thereof in writing, and the Borrower has complied, or caused to be
complied, with the same consultation and disclosure requirements as applicable to the
original adoption of the said instruments.

2h RRR ISR

>, In the event of any conflict between the provisions the ESMF or any Safeguard
Assessments and Plans, and the provisions of this Agreement, the provisions of this
Agreement shall prevail.

C. Other

The Borrower shall ensure that: (a) for each independent activity consisting of
improvement and rehabilitation work under Part A of the Project, a template which
summarizes information on technical, environmental, social, and implementation-related
information aspects of such activity is prepared; and (b) prior to the carrying out of any
improvement and rehabilitation works under Part A of the Project, the Bank has approved
such template ;

4 Section I. Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation

The Borrower shall, and shall case the Project Implementing Entities, with respect to their
Respective Parts of the Project, furnish to the Bank each Project Report eight (8) weeks
after the end of each calendar semester, covering the calendar semester.

 

 
 

Section III. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

 

A. General

Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and in
accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the Borrower may
withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to: (a) finance Eligible Expenditures, (b) pay: (1) the
Front-end Fee; and (ii)Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar premium; in the amount
allocated and, if applicable, up to the percentage set forth against each Category of the
following table:

Category Amount of the Loan
| Allocated to be financed
expressed in USD inclusive of Taxes

' (1) Goods, works, non-consulting
services, consulting services and
Incremental Operating Costs for P
Central Water Commission and eae sia
Damodar Valley Corporation
(2) Goods, works, non-consulting |
services, consulting services and
113,657,500 70%
(3) Goods, works, non-consulting
services, consulting services sand
Incremental Operating Costs for the 10,200,000 80%
State of Uttarakhand

Incremental Operating Costs for the

States of Kamataka, Kerala, Odisha

(4) Front-end Fee Amount payable pursuant to
Section 2.03 of _ this

and Tamil Nadu

| Agreement in accordance with
Section 2.07 (b) of the General
Conditions

(5) Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Amount due pursuant’ to
Collar premium Section 4.05 (c) of the General
Conditions

Percentage of Expenditures

     
   

     
       
   
    
   
 

  

    
    
 

  

342,500

   
 

  
      
  
  

  

 
-9-

B. Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

1. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawal shall be made for
payments made prior to the Signature Date, except that withdrawals up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed USD 27,400,000 may be made for payments made prior to this date
but on or after April 30, 2018, for Eligible Expenditures under Categories (1), (2) and (3).

A The Closing Date is June 29, 2020.

 
-_

-10-

SCHEDULE 3
Commitment-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage of the
total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date (‘Installment Share”).

Installment Share

 
   
  
 

  
   

On each June 15 and December 15
Beginning December 15, 2021
Through December 15, 2033

On June 15, 2034

   

3.85%

3.75%

  
  

ree aioe

 

OL ne eR Fa a Teo Sate aes.
Tete leat eee a eee
ats

APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

1. “Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and Corruption
in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006
and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016. |

Z. “Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section ITI of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.

a “Central Project Management Unit” the unit referred to in Section 1.A.3(b) of Schedule 2
to this Agreement.

4. “Central Water Commission” means the Borrower’s commission operating under its

Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation entrusted with
the responsibility of initiating, coordinating and furthering schemes for the control,
conservation and utilization of natural water resources, in consultation with Borrower state
governments.

5; “Corporations” means UJVNL and DVC, or any successors thereto, or any other
corporation which, at a later date, may be determined by the Borrower and the Bank to be
eligible to participate in the Project.

6. “Corporation’s Legislation” means each of the following legislations: (a) in the case of
DVC, Damodar Valley Corporation Act No. XIV of 1948 as amended as of the date of the
Loan Agreement; and (b) in the case of UJVNL, the Memorandum of Association and
Articles of Association vide certificate of incorporation no. U 40101 UR 2001 SGC 025866
under the Companies Act 1956, as amended as of the date of the Loan Agreement. |

7. “Dam Safety Organization” means an organization working in a Participating State within
the Water Resources Department, Electricity Board or Corporation, as the case may be,
whose responsibilities include inspecting dams, carrying out related inspection analysis,
preparing reports, issuing recommendations regarding the safety status of dams and
proposing remedial measures to be undertaken to improve their safety.

8. “Displaced Persons” means persons who, on account of the execution of the Project, have
experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts caused by: (a) the
involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets or
access to assets: or (iii) loss of income sources or means of livelihood, whether or not such
persons must move to another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally
designated parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impact on the livelihoods of such
persons.

 

9. “DVC” or “Damodar Valley Corporation” mean an entity established and operating
pursuant to the legislation referred to in paragraph 6(a) of the Appendix to this Agreement.

 
 

10.

11.

hie.

13.

14.

i5.

16.

17.

-}%..

“Electricity Board” means the Electricity Board of the State of Kerala, established pursuant
to Electric Supply Act of 1948 (as amended to the date of this Agreement), or any successor
thereto.

“EMP” means the environmental management plan for Hirakud dam dated January 2018
and publicly disclosed on the Bank’s external website (documents & reports) on August 6,
2018; setting out mitigation, enhancement, monitoring and institutional measures,
including capacity building through training, required to: (i) eliminate adverse
environmental impacts of activities to be implemented under the Project; (11) offset them,
or reduce them to acceptable levels; and (iii) enhance any positive impacts thereof, as such
plan may be revised/updated, from time to time, with the prior written agreement of the
Bank.

“ESME” means the Environmental and Social Management Framework, dated June 26,
2009, and updated on June 2018 - and publicly disclosed on the Bank’s external website

.(documents & reports) on August 7, 2018 - governing all social and environmental aspects

of Project implementation, including mitigation and adaptive measures to offset, reduce to
acceptable levels, or eliminate, any adverse environmental and/or social impacts under the
Project, as said framework may be updated from time to time by agreement between the
Borrower and the Bank.

“Financial Management Manual” means the Project’s financial manual, dated May 31,
2010, which manual contains, inter alia, accounting policies and procedures, flow of funds
arrangements and procedures for internal control with respect to the carrying out of the
Project, as said manual may be amended from time to time by agreement between the
Borrower and the Bank.

“GAAP” means the governance and accountability action plan, satisfactory to the Bank,
adopted by the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entities, which sets out the key
actions to be undertaken by the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entities to
strengthen governance, transparency, and accountability under the Project, as such plan
may be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project Financing”, dated July 14,
2017.

“Hirakud Dam” means a Project Dam located in the State of Odisha.

“Incremental Operating Costs” means the reasonable costs of incremental expenditures
incurred by the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entities on account of Project
implementation, management and monitoring, including, inter alia: (i) costs of incremental
contractual staff salaries (other than consultants) and civil servants deputed to the Project,
(ii) dissemination of Project related information; (iii) office rental and leasing operation
and maintenance of equipment; (iv) office supplies and utilities; (v) travel and
boarding/lodging allowances; (vi) leasing, operation and maintenance of vehicles; (vii)
advertising and communication expenses, and (viii) bank charges.

 
Fe.

18. “Key Performance Indicators” means the indicators agreed to with the Bank for monitoring
and evaluating progress towards the attainment of Project objectives agreed upon between
the Borrower and the Bank.

9. “Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation” means the

Borrower’s ministry responsible for water resources.

20. “Original Loan Agreement” means the agreement between the Borrower and the Bank for
the financing of the Original Project, dated December 21, 2011 (Loan No.7943-IN), as
amended.

21. “Original Project” means the Project described in Schedule 1 to the Original Financing
Agreement.

Zils “Panel of Experts” means a panel consisting of at least three (3) independent dam experts

to be recruited and retained according to the provision of Section LC. l(a) of the schedule
to the Project Agreement.

23. “Project Dams” means set of dams located in the Borrower’s territory, which are listed in
the Project Implementation Plan and included in the Project.

24. “Project Implementing Entities” means the States of Karnataka, Kerala, Odisha, Tamil
Nadu and Uttarakhand, acting through their Water Resources Departments, Electricity
Board and/or Corporations (as the case may be); or any successors thereto, or any other
Indian State which, at a later date, may be determined by the Borrower and the Bank to be
eligible to participate in the Project, and which for the purposes of the General Conditions
are the Project Implementing Entities.

25. “Procurement Regulations” means, for purposes of paragraph 85 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the “World Bank Procurement Regulations for [PF Borrowers”, dated
July 2016, revised November 2017.

26. “Project Implementation Plan” means the plan referred to in Section I.A.2(a) of Schedule
2 to this Agreement, dated May 26, 2010, as said plan may be updated from time to time
by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank.

‘ a “RAP” means the resettlement action plan for the Hirakud Dam dated June 2018 and

publicly disclosed on the Bank’s external website (documents & reports) on July 13, 2018;

setting forth any compensation, rehabilitation and resettlement assistance to be provided to

Displaced Persons, in a manner and substance satisfactory to the Bank, on account of
Project implementation, as such plan may be revised/updated from time to time with the
prior written agreement of the Bank.

28. “Safeguard Assessments and Plans” means collectively, the environmental assessments,
environmental management plans, social assessments, social management plans,
resettlement action plans for Displaced Persons and other documents (to be) prepared, |
disclosed and implemented pursuant to Section IB. of the Schedule to the Project ' |
Agreement; including the EMP and RAP.

 
 

29.

30.

31.

a2.

-14-

“Signature Date” means the latest of the two dates on which the Borrower and the Bank
signed this Agreement and such definition applied to all references to “the date of the Loan
Agreement” in the General Conditions.

“State Project Management Unit” means the Project Management Unit referred to in
Section 1.A.3(b) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, “State Project Management
Units” means the plural thereof.

“UJVNL” means a wholly owned corporation of the State of Uttarakhand set up for
managing hydro power generation.

“Water Resources Department” means the water resources departments of the States of
Kerala, Karnataka, Odisha and Tamil Nadu that are responsible for the construction and
operation and maintenance of public water resources projects.

 
