Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

OFFICIA
DOCUMENTS

LOAN NUMBER 8920-PE

Loan Agreement

(Integrated Health Networks Project -
Creacion de Redes Integradas de Salud)

between
REPUBLIC OF PERU
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between the REPUBLIC OF PERU

(“Borrower”) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:

1.01.

1.02.

2.01.

2.02.

2.03.

2.04.

209i

2.06.

2.07.

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to and form
part of this Agreement.

Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.

ARTICLE II — LOAN

The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of one hundred twenty-five million
Dollars (USD 125,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through
a Currency Conversion (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule |
to this Agreement (“Project”).

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section III of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower’s Representative for purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this Section is the Borrower’s Minister
of MEF or the Borrower’s Director of Indebtedness and Public Treasury (DGETP), or any
person whom any of them shall designate in writing.

The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.

The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.

The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Variable Spread or such rate as may apply
following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General Conditions.

The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
3.0L,

4.02.

al.

5.02.

6.01.

6.02.

ARTICLE ITI — PROJECT

The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall carry out the Project through MINSA (through PRONIS), in accordance
with Article V of the General Conditions and Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK

The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following, namely that the RIS
Program has been amended, suspended or abrogated so as to affect, materially and
adversely, in the opinion of the Bank, the execution of the Project.

The Additional Event of Acceleration consist the following, namely that the event specified
in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of sixty (60) days
after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower.

ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that the
Operational Manual has been adopted by PRONIS in a manner acceptable to the Bank.

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the Signature Date.

ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Economy and Finance, provided that the
Borrower’s General Director of DGETP, may, by him or herself represent the Borrower to
sign amendments and/or notices to this Agreement which are considered of an
administrative and non-financial nature. The signing by such Director of an amendment
and/or notice shall constitute a representation by the Borrower that any such amendment
and/or notice is considered to be administrative and non-financial in nature.

For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Borrower’s address is:
Ministry of Economy and Finance

Jr. Junin 319

Lima, Pert

Facsimile: +51(1) 626-9921

For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Bank’s address is:

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America; and
(b) the Bank’s Electronic Address is:

Telex: Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)

AGREED as of the Signature Date.

REPUBLIC OF PERU
By ae Na Mlan
Authorized Representative J

Name: CARWS OlvA NEYRA

Title: Mini sTRo de Ecowonia y Fivanzas

Date: _| 3 MAR 2019

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By (Wad PL. Gh f
Authorized Representative

Name: ALGERTO Ropmcuez _

Title: DinectoR Banco Mua OiAL 2
13 MAR 2018

Date:

 

Minister of Health
SCHEDULE 1

Project Description

The objectives of the Project are to: (i) improve the resolutive capacity and quality of public First-
Level Health Services in Lima Metropolitan Area and Prioritized Regions; and (ii) increase the
capacity of the Single Health Information System and the public sector’s pharmaceutical products
and medical supplies provision system.

The Project consists of the following parts:

Part 1: Improving the Organization and Supply of Health Services Using an Integrated
Health Networks (RIS) Model in Lima Metropolitan Area and Prioritized Regions
(Components 1 and 2 of the RIS Program)

Provision of support to introduce a new First-Level Health Services delivery model in Lima
Metropolitan Area and Prioritized Regions, through, inter alia:

(a) Design, implementation tools, dissemination, training, and monitoring of the
Integrated Health Networks model to respond to the new patterns of the burden of disease,
including clinical practice guidelines, patient care pathways, determination of infrastructure,
equipment, personnel and service standards, organizational, management, and financing
arrangements.

(b) (i) Mapping of health facilities; (ii) formulation of strategic plans in terms of health
service needs, health service provision, health infrastructure, medical and non-medical
equipment, connectivity and personnel; (iii) determination of the requirements for
connectivity, IT infrastructure and equipment under a network approach; and (iv)
identification of optimal locations for the rehabilitation, expansion, reconstruction or
construction of First-Level Health Facilities.

(c) Design and implementation of: (i) a plan to strengthening the health service human
resources capacity; (ii) change management and communication plans; and (iii) monitoring
and evaluation of the Integrated Health Networks model.

(d) Carrying out of works for construction, refurbishment, renovation, expansion,
relocation and tear-down/reconstruction of new or existing First-Level Health Facilities to
serve as “Up-to-12 Hour IPRESS” and “24 Hour IPRESS”.

(e) Provision of equipment, including medical and non-medical equipment, for the
‘“Up-to-12 Hour IPRESS” and “24 Hour IPRESS”.
Part 2: Improving the Capacity of the Single Health Information System (SUIS) at the
National Level (Component 3 of the RIS Program)

Provision of support to generate adequate access to, and management information for, the clinical
and administrative decision-making process in the Borrower’s health system, through, inter alia:

(a) Strengthening of governance and standardization of data and ICT processes.

(b) Provision of technological and network infrastructure to support the
implementation of the SUIS, including: (i) carrying out of works for the construction of
three buildings in the cities of Lima, Trujillo and Huancavelica to install data centers to
ensure storage, processing, security and data availability; and (ii) acquisition of equipment
and carrying out of works to provide internal and external connectivity to First-Level
Health Facilities in Lima Metropolitan Area and Prioritized Regions.

(c) Strengthening of health personnel capacity for the registration, management and
use of information in the SUIS.

(d) Design, promotion and dissemination of user engagement instruments for the
SUIS.

Part 3: Improving the Management of Pharmaceutical Products and Medical Supplies in
Lima Metropolitan Area and Prioritized Regions (Component 5 of the RIS Program)

Provision of support to improve access in terms of quantity, quality, timeliness and affordability to
pharmaceutical products and medical supplies in public health facilities in Lima Metropolitan Area
and Prioritized Regions through, inter alia:

(a) (i) improvement of the management model; (ii) improving of the financing model;
and (iii) improvement of the listing, planning, procurement, storage, distribution and use
processes.

(b) | Support the implementation of a traceability and stock management system for
pharmaceutical products and medical supplies (including medical devices).

(c) | Carrying out of works for the construction and rehabilitation of, and provision of
equipment and vehicles for: (i) a new central warehouse in the city of Lima; and (ii)
selected warehouses in Prioritized Regions.

Part 4: Project Management

Provision of support to MINSA for Project management, monitoring and implementation,
acquisition of equipment and provision of technical assistance in the areas of contract management,
procurement, financial management, technical and monitoring and evaluation (including Project
audits).
Section I.

c,

l.

SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Implementation Arrangements

Institutional Arrangements

The Borrower, through MINSA, shall:

(a)

(b)

maintain, throughout Project implementation, a structure within PRONIS with
functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank, and staffed with adequate
fiduciary, administrative and technical personnel as set forth in the Operational
Manual, with the responsibility to implement, monitor and supervise the Project
(including its financial, procurement and safeguard aspects); and

not later than a ninety (90) days after Effective Date, ensure that a procurement
and a financial management specialist are hired to work full time within PRONIS,
all under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.

Implementation Agreements

(a)

(b)

Prior to the carrying out of any activities under Part 1 and Part 3 (c) (2) of the
Project in a Prioritized Region under the jurisdiction of a Regional Government,
the Borrower, through MINSA, shall enter into an agreement with pertinent
Regional Government (Interinstitutional Agreement) which shall include, inter
alia, the obligation of each Regional Government to take or permit to be taken all
actions to enable the Borrower to carry out, and provide the necessary technical
support for the preparation and implementation of, the relevant Project activities,
all as described in the Operational Manual.

The Borrower, through MINSA, shall ensure that the terms and conditions of the
Interinstitucional Agreement do not conflict with the provisions of this Agreement.

Operational Manual

The Borrower shall, through MINSA (through PRONIS), carry out the Project in
accordance with the provisions of a manual (the Operational Manual), satisfactory to the
Bank, which shall include, inter alia: (i) the organizational structure of the Project,
including the structure and terms of reference of personnel in charge of the implementation
of the Project; (ii) the procedures for the carrying out, monitoring and evaluation of the
Project; (iil) the indicators for Project monitoring and evaluation; (iv) the Project
procurement and financial management requirements and procedures; (v) the Project’s
chart of accounts and internal controls; and (vi) the Safeguard Documents.

In case of any conflict between the terms of the Operational Manual and those of this
Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.

-6-
Safeguards

The Borrower, through MINSA, shall ensure that the Project is carried out with due regard
to appropriate health, safety, social, and environmental standards and practices, and in
accordance with the Safeguards Documents, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.

Without limitation upon paragraph 1 above, the Borrower, through MINSA, shall ensure
that:

(a) prior to carrying out any works under Part 1 and Part 3 of the Project for which the
ESMF provides for the preparation of an ESMP, proceed to have such ESMP: (i)
prepared and disclosed in accordance with the ESMF; (ii) consulted upon
adequately as per the ESMF, and submitted to the Bank for review and approval;
and (iii) thereafter adopted and implemented, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank;

(b) prior to carrying out any works under Part | and Part 3 of the Project for which the
RPF provides for the preparation of a RAP, proceed to have such RAP: (i)
prepared and disclosed in accordance with the RPF; (ii) consulted upon adequately
with Affected Persons, and submitted to the Bank for review and approval; and
(iii) thereafter adopted and implemented, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, to
ensure, inter alia, that Affected Persons are compensated at full replacement cost,
resettled and provided with assistance in accordance with such RAP prior to
displacement, as applicable;

(c) sufficient funds are made available to cover the costs of implementing any RAP
prepared in accordance with (b) above;

(d) prior to carrying out any activity under Part 1 and Part 3 of the Project for which
the IPPF provides for the preparation of an IPP, proceed to have such IPP: (i)
prepared and disclosed in accordance with the IPPF; (ii) consulted upon adequately
as per the IPPF, and submitted to the Bank for review and approval; and (iii)
thereafter adopted and implemented, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank;

(e) activities under Part 2 of the Project and the construction of the new central
warehouse in Lima under Part 3 of the Project are carried out in accordance with
respective ESMPs prepared for these activities, in a manner satisfactory to the
Bank; and

(f) all bidding documents and contracts for works under the Project include the
obligation of contractors, subcontractors and supervising entities to comply with
the relevant aspects of Safeguard Documents, as applicable to such civil works
commissioned or carried out pursuant to said contracts.
3. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree in writing, the Borrower, through MINSA, shall
ensure that none of the provisions of the Safeguard Documents is amended, revised or
waived. In case of any inconsistencies between the provisions of any of the Safeguard
Documents and the provisions of this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall
prevail.

4, Without limitation upon its other reporting obligations under this Agreement, the
Borrower, through MINSA, shall:

(a) take all measures necessary on its part to regularly collect, compile, and submit to
the Bank, as part of the Project Reports, and promptly in a separate report whenever
the Bank may require, information on the status of compliance with the Safeguards
Documents, all such reports in form and substance acceptable to the Bank, setting
out, inter alia: (i) the status of implementation of the Safeguards Documents; (ii)
conditions, if any, which interfere or threaten to interfere with the implementation
of the Safeguards Documents; and (iii) corrective and preventive measures taken
or required to be taken to address such conditions; and

(b) promptly notify the Bank of any incident or accident related to or having an impact
on the Project which has, or is likely to have, a significant adverse effect on the
environment, the affected communities, the public or workers, including, inter
alia, any workplace accidents that result in death, serious or multiple injury, any
violent labor unrest, any dispute between the Borrower, MINSA or its contractors
and subcontractors and local communities, any case of gender-based violence and
violence against minors.

5: The Borrower, through MINSA, shall maintain, throughout Project implementation, and
publicize the availability of a grievance mechanism, in form and substance satisfactory to
the Bank, to hear and determine fairly and in good faith all complaints raised in relation to
the Project, and take all measures necessary to implement the determinations made by such
mechanism, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.

6. The Borrower, through MINSA, shall ensure that: (a) all consultancies related to technical
assistance, design and capacity building under the Project, the application of whose results
could have environmental, social and health and safety implications, shall only be
undertaken pursuant to terms of reference reviewed and found satisfactory by the Bank;
and (b) such terms of reference shall require the technical assistance, design and capacity
building activities to take into account the requirements of the applicable Bank’s
Safeguards Policies.

Section II. Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

The Borrower, through MINSA, shall furnish to the Bank and to DGIP each Project Report
not later than one month after the end of each calendar semester, covering the calendar
semester.
Section III. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

 

A. General

Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and in
accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the Borrower may
withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to: finance Eligible Expenditures; in the amount
allocated and, if applicable, up to the percentage set forth against each Category of the
following table:

      

     

  

     
  
    
    

Category Amount of the Loan Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated to be financed
expressed in USD exclusive of Taxes)

  
  
 
 

   
  
    
  
 

(1) Goods, works, Training,
non-consulting services, and
consulting services for Part |
of the Project
(2) Goods, works, Training,
non-consulting services, and
consulting services for Part 2
of the Project
(3) Goods, works, Training,
non-consulting services, and
consulting services for Part 3
of the Project

TOTAL AMOUNT 125,000,000 Ree ee ae ee a. |

B. Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

£91042,082 100%

  
  
       
   
   
  
 

 
 
 
 
 
  

ie Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A above, no withdrawal shall be made for payments
made prior to the Signature Date.

a: The Closing Date is January 31, 2024.
Section IV. Other Undertakings

By September 27, 2021, or such other date as the Bank shall agree upon, the Borrower, through
MINSA, shall: (i) carry out, jointly with the Bank, a mid-term review of the implementation of the
Project, which shall cover the progress achieved in the implementation of the Project; and (ii)
following such mid-term review, act promptly and diligently to take any corrective action as shall
be agreed by the Bank.
SCHEDULE 3

Customized Amortization Repayment Schedule

The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan as follows:

Repayment Date
(Expressed as a Percentage)

December 15, 2024
June 15, 2025
December 15, 2025
June 15, 2026
December 15, 2026
June 15, 2027
December 15, 2027
June 15, 2028
December 15, 2028
June 15, 2029

  
   
       
   
     
     
     
       
      

 

-10-
APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

“24 Hour IPRESS” means First Level Health Facilities that provide 24 hour health services.

“Affected Person” means a person or entity who, on account of the execution of the Project
has experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts caused by: (1) the
involuntary taking of land resulting in: (A) relocation or loss of shelter; (B) loss of assets
or access to assets; or (C) loss of income sources or means of livelihood, whether or not
such person must move to another location; or (ii) the involuntary restriction of access to
legally designated parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood
of such person; and, “Affected Persons”, means more than one such Affected Person.

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and Corruption
in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006
and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section III.A of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.

“DGETP” means the General Directorate of Indebtedness and Public Treasury within
MEF.

“DGIP” means the General Directorate of Public Investment within MEF.

“Environmental and Social Management Framework or ESMF” means the Borrower’s
Marco de Gestion Ambiental y Social (MGAS) acceptable to the Bank, dated November
28, 2018, setting out the principles, rules, guidelines and procedures to be followed to
prepare the ESMPs to screen and assess the potential adverse environmental, social, health
and safety risks and impacts of activities under Part 1 and Part 3 of the Project, include the
measures to avoid, reduce, mitigate or offset environmental, social, health and safety risks
and impacts of such activities, and the procedural, budget and institutional arrangements
and actions needed to implement these measures, and information on the agency or
agencies responsible for addressing the risks and impacts; as such framework may be
amended from time to time, with the prior written agreement of the Bank.

“Environmental and Social Management Plans” or “ESMPs” means the following
environmental and social management plans: (i) the plan prepared by the Borrower for the
works to be carried out in Huancavelica under Part 2 of the Project, acceptable to the Bank,
dated December 19, 2018; (ii) the plan prepared by the Borrower for the works to be carried
out in Trujillo under Part 2 of the Project, acceptable to the Bank, dated December 19,
2018; (iii) the plan prepared by the Borrower for the works to be carried out in Lima under
Part 2 and the new central warehouse in Lima under Part 3 of the Project, acceptable to the
Bank, dated December 12, 2018; and (iv) any plans to be prepared, disclosed and consulted
upon by the Borrower for activities under Part 1 and Part 3 of the Project, in accordance

i.
15.

17.

with the ESMF, in a manner acceptable to the Bank; all such plans setting out, inter alia,
the potential environmental, social, health and safety risks and impacts associated with the
activities therein assessed, the measures to be taken during the implementation of the
activities to avoid, minimize, mitigate or offset adverse these environmental, social health
and safety risks and impacts, or to reduce them to acceptable levels, and the procedural,
budget and institutional arrangements and actions needed to implement these measures; as
said ESMPs may be amended from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank; and
‘“-ESMP” means any of such plans described above.

‘First-Level Health Facilities” means IPRESS that provide First-Level Health Services.

“First-Level Health Services” means health and medical services to promote, prevent,
diagnose and treat common and high-prevalence diseases and health conditions.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project Financing”, dated July 14,
2017.

“ICT” means information and communication technology.

“IPRESS” means Jnstituciones Prestadoras de Servicios de Salud, the Borrower’s
institutions that provide health services including hospitals, First-Level Health Facilities,
laboratories and medical imaging centers.

“Indigenous Peoples Policy Framework” or “IPPF” means the Borrower’s Marco de
Pueblos Indigenas, acceptable to the Bank, dated November 28, 2018, which sets out the
principles, organizational arrangements (including consultation, budget and disclosure),
and design criteria to be applied to Project activities which affect indigenous peoples,
including the preparation of indigenous peoples plans, as such framework may be amended
from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank.

‘Indigenous Peoples Plans” or “IPPs” means indigenous peoples plans to be prepared for
activities under Parts 1 and 3 of the Project in accordance with the procedures and
requirements of the IPPF, including the principles, procedures, organizational
arrangements and budget to implement the indigenous peoples related activities under such
plans, as said Indigenous Peoples Plans may be revised from time to time with the prior
written agreement of the Bank; and “IPP” means any such plan.

‘Integrated Health Networks” or “RIS” means a set of organizations that provides, or
makes the institutional arrangements to provide, a portfolio of comprehensive and
equitable health services for a defined population, through articulation, coordination and
complementation, and is accountable for the health and administrative results and for the
health status of the population it serves.

‘Inter-institutional Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.B of Schedule

2 to this Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower, through MINSA, and a
Regional Government.

-12-
20.

71.

bk

23s

24.

eo

Zl.

28.

“MEF” means Ministerio de Economia y Finanzas, the Borrower’s Ministry of Economy
and Finance, or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.

“MINSA” means Ministerio de Salud, the Borrower’s Ministry of Health, or any successor
thereto acceptable to the Bank.

“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section I.C of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, as said manual may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the
Bank.

“Prioritized Regions” means a region within the Borrower’s territory to be selected by the
Borrower during the first year of Project implementation.

“Procurement Regulations” means, for purposes of paragraph 85 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the “World Bank Procurement Regulations for IPF Borrowers”, dated
July 2016, revised November 2017.

“PRONIS” means Programa Nacional de Inversiones en Salud, the Borrower’s National
Health Investment Program, created by the Borrower’s Decree (Decreto Supremo N°035-
2014-SA), dated November 27, 2014 as amended by the Decree (Decreto Supremo N° 032-
2017-SA).

“Resettlement Action Plans” or “RAPs” means the resettlement action plans to be prepared
for activities under Parts 1 and 3 of the Project in accordance with the procedures and
requirements of the RPF, which includes the principles, procedures, organizational
arrangements and budget to implement the resettlement related activities under such plans,
as said resettlement action plans may be revised from time to time with the prior written
agreement of the Bank; and “RAP” means any such plan.

“Resettlement Policy Framework” or “RPF” means the Borrower’s Marco de
Reasentamiento Involuntario, acceptable to the Bank, dated November 28, 2018, which
sets out the resettlement principles, guidelines, organizational arrangements (including
consultation and budget), and design criteria for the preparation of RAPs under the Project,
as such framework may be amended from time to time with the prior written agreement of
the Bank.

“RIS Program” means Programa de Gobierno de Creacion de Redes Integradas de Salud,
the Borrower’s Program to create Integrated Health Networks, published in
http://ofi5.mef.gob.pe/invierte/formato/verProyecto/38583.

‘Safeguard Documents” means collectively, the ESMF, ESMPs, IPPF, IPPs, RPF and
RAPs, and “Safeguard Document” means any of such Safeguard Documents.

“Safeguard Policies” means, the Operational Policies (OPs) and Bank Procedures (BPs) of
the Bank, namely OP/BP 4.01 (Environmental Assessment), OP/BP 4.04 (Natural
Habitats), OP/BP 4.09 (Pest Management), OP/BP 4.10 (Indigenous Peoples), OP/BP 4.11
(Physical Cultural Resources), OP/BP 4.12 (Involuntary Resettlement), OP/BP 4.36

ates
29.

31.

Sd.

(Forests), and OP/BP 4.37 (Safety of Dams); they can be found at
https://policies.worldbank.org.

“Signature Date” means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the Bank
signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to “the date of the Loan
Agreement” in the General Conditions.

“Single Health Information System” or “SUIS” means the Borrower’s health information
system including ICT infrastructure, hardware, software and data.

“Training” means the non-consulting expenditures incurred by PRONIS in connection with
training activities, workshops and study tours under the Project, including the rental of
facilities, training materials and international and domestic travel, lodging and per diem of
trainers and trainees.

“Up-to-12 Hour IPRESS” means First-Level Health Facilities that provide up to 12 hours
a day of health services.

ats
