Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

LOAN NUMBER 9008-AR

Loan Agreement

(Additional Financing for the Matanza-Riachuelo Basin (MRB) Sustainable Development
Project)

between
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between ARGENTINE REPUBLIC

(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing additional financing for the Original
Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree
as follows:

1.02.

2.01.

2.02.

2.03.

2.04.

2.05.

2.06.

2.07.

3.01.

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to and form
part of this Agreement.

Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.

ARTICLE II — LOAN

The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of two hundred and forty-five million
United States Dollars ($245,000,000) as such amount may be converted from time to time
through a Currency Conversion (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project’’).

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section III of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower’s Representatives for purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this Section are its Minister of Treasury,
its Undersecretary of International Financial Relations, or its National Director of
Financing with International Credit Institutions.

The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.

The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.

The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Variable Spread or such rate as may apply
following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General Conditions.

The Payment Dates are January | and July 1 in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.

ARTICLE II — PROJECT

(a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end,
the Borrower, through MIOPYV, shall: (i) cause AySA to carry out Part 1 of the
Project pursuant to the provisions of the AySA Agreement; and (ii) carry out Parts

]
4.01.

4.02.

(b)

2, 3, and 4 of the Project, all in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions, Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and as provided in paragraph
(b) below.

Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower,
through MIOPV, shall cause ACUMAR to participate in the carrying out of the
Project in accordance with the terms of the ACUMAR Resolution, which terms
shall include those set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK

The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:

(a)

(b)

(d)

(e)

AySA shall have failed to comply with any of its obligations under the AySA
Agreement.

The ACUMAR Resolution shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed, waived or not enforced, in such a manner so as to affect materially and
adversely, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of ACUMAR to participate in the
carrying out of the Project, as the terms of said participation are described in said
resolution.

The Borrower, through MIOPV, and/or AySA shall have failed to comply with
any of their pertinent obligations under the AySA Concession Contract, in such a
manner so as to affect materially and adversely, in the opinion of the Bank, the
ability of AySA to: (i) carry out the works under Part 1 of the Project; and (ii)
operate and maintain each of said works with due diligence and efficiency.

The AySA Concession Contract or any provision thereof shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived and/or terminated, in such a manner so as
affect materially and adversely, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of AySA to:
(i) carry out the works under Part 1 of the Project; and (ii) operate and maintain
each of said works with due diligence and efficiency.

The Regulatory Framework or any provision thereof shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or not enforced, in such a manner so as to
affect materially and adversely, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of AySA to:
(i) carry out the works under Part 1 of the Project; and (ii) operate and maintain
each of said works with due diligence and efficiency.

The Additional Events of Acceleration consist of the following:

(a)

(b)

Any event specified in paragraphs (a) or (c) or (d) of Section 4.01 of this
Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of 60 days after notice of the event
has been given by the Bank to the Borrower.

Any event specified in paragraph (b) or (e) Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs.

a
5.01.

5.02.

6.01.

6.02.

ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that for
purposes of complying with Section I.E (a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, the Borrower,
through MIOPV, has furnished to the Bank evidence satisfactory to the Bank.
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the Signature Date.
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

Except as provided in Section 2.02 of this Agreement and in the ESCP, the Borrower’s
Representative is its Minister of Treasury.

For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) the Borrower’s Address is:

Ministry of Treasury

Hipolito Yrigoyen 250, Piso 5

C1086 AAB, Buenos Aires

Argentina; and

(b) the Borrower’s Electronic Address is:

E-mail:
secpriv@mecon.gob.ar
6.03. For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) the Bank’s address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America; and

(b) the Bank’s Electronic Address is:

Telex: Facsimile: E-mail
248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391 Jschwartz3 @worldbank.org
64145(MCI)

AGREED as of the Signature Date.

ARGENTINE REPU

 
   

By
orized Representative

Name: Jorge Roberto Hernan Lacunza

Title: Ministro de Hacienda

Date: 12/11/2019

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

 

Authorized Representative

Name: Jordan Schwartz —
Title: Country Mire ctor

Date: OG oA4
SCHEDULE 1

Project Description

The objectives of the Project are to: (a) improve sewerage services in the M-R River Basin,
and other parts of the PBA and the CBA by expanding transport and treatment capacity; (b) support
a reduction of industrial discharges to the M-R River, through the provision of CRI Grants;
(c) promote improved decision-making for environmentally-sustainable land use and drainage
planning, and to pilot urban drainage and land use investments, in the M-R River Basin: and
(d) strengthen ACUMAR’s institutional framework for the ongoing and sustainable clean-up of the
M-R River Basin.

The Project consists of the following parts as stated in the Original Project:

Part 1: Sanitation

(a)

(b)

Carrying out of investments in sanitation infrastructure within the Concession
Area, as approved by the Bank, which consist of: (i) the construction of the left
bank collector (colector margen izquierda) of the M-R River; (ii) the construction
of the Baja Costanera bypass collector which will connect the left bank collector
mentioned in (i) herein with the Riachuelo preliminary treatment plant mentioned
in (iii) herein; (iii) the construction of the Riachuelo preliminary treatment plant,
including the construction of the inflow and outflow pumping stations; (iv) the
construction of the Riachuelo outfall; (v) the construction of the industrial collector
on the right bank of the M-R River, including the construction of its pumping
station; (vi) the construction of the sludge treatment plant of the Sudoeste waste
water treatment plant; and (vii) the carrying out of minor complementary works.

Carrying out of: (i) independent technical supervision of the works under Part 1
(a) (i) through (vii) of the Project based on a request for proposals, acceptable to
the Bank, as provided in the Consultant Guidelines; and (ii) data collection,
analyses and modeling in support of the engineering designs for the works under
Part 1 (a) of the Project.

Part 2: Industrial Pollution Abatement

(a)

(b)

(i) Carrying out of: (A) pollution diagnostics (which diagnostics shall take into
account, inter alia, the baseline data and information produced by the geographic
information system mentioned in Part 3 (b) below); and (B) an analysis of possible
social impacts of industrial conversion within the M-R River Basin; (ii) design of
a framework to establish appropriate effluent loads for industries located within
the M-R River Basin; and (iii) carrying out of samplings of water consumption and
flow discharge of industrial effluents into the M-R River to support the carrying
out of the diagnostics mentioned in (i) herein.

Improvement of the current system for monitoring industrial wastes, through, inter
alia: (i) the acquisition and utilization of equipment for laboratories to be selected
in accordance with criteria set forth in the Operational Manual: (ii) if needed, the

5
Part 3:

 

(d)

provision of training to the staff of the laboratories mentioned in (i) herein, and to
ACUMAR’s staff, all on the use of the equipment mentioned in (i) herein; and (iii)
the carrying out of annual technical audits (under terms of reference acceptable to
the Bank) to monitor compliance of the PRIs.

Improvement of the current strategy for industrial discharges based on the results
of the pollution diagnostics mentioned in Part 2 (a) (i) (A) above, which strategy
shall be in line with the framework mentioned in Part 2 (a) (11) above.

Design and implementation of a program of corporate environmental
responsibility (which program shall include, inter alia, an environmental
disclosure program) for purposes of, inter alia, disclosing information to the public
concerning compliance with existing PRIs.

Provision of CRI Grants to finance investments in environmentally sound
production processes, which investments are included in the pertinent PRI.

Construction of an industrial wastewater treatment plant and a tannery industrial
park for the Municipality of Lanus, in the Province of Buenos Aires, including the
supervision of works.

Environmental Territorial Management

(a)

(b)

(d)

(e)

Development of a regional planning system for the M-R River Basin, through,
inter alia: (i) the carrying out of a review and update of the recommendations set
forth in the territorial development study (carried out for ACUMAR) dated
October 2007, so as to design the appropriate technical tools to carry out
discussions and build consensus on priority issues and programs related to
sustainable development among key stakeholders in the M-R River Basin; (ii) the
carrying out of workshops with key stakeholders on priority issues and programs
related to sustainable development in the M-R River Basin; and (iii) the carrying
out of selected studies on the priority issues referred to in (ii) herein as approved
by the Bank.

Design and implementation of a geographic information system to support
ACUMAR’s planning and decision-making capacity, and to serve as a tool for
monitoring the sustainable development of the M-R River Basin.

Design and implementation of a flood control system for the M-R River Basin.

Update of the hydrological master plan for the M-R River Basin dated March 1995,
through, inter alia, the carrying out of studies to update information on
hydrological sub-systems and determine flood risk levels and mapping, all under
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.

Strengthening of the meteorological and hydrological alert system for the M-R
River Basin, so as to obtain, inter alia, real-time emergency management
information, rainfall flooding forecast and flood warning information, water flows

6
(f)

(g)

information of the M-R River and of the exceptionally high tides in the Rio de la
Plata from strong southeasterly winds (sudestadas), and information on
precipitation quantity forecasts and hail forecasts.

(i) Design of contingency flood emergency plans, which plans shall include, inter
alia, implementation modalities and simulation exercises involving the provincial
and municipal agencies, and local communities, all located within the M-R River
Basin; (ii) development of communication programs to provide timely information
to local communities on forecasted flood events; and (iii) design of environmental
programs and management plans for potential flood prevention investments, and
thereafter, carry out public information campaigns to disseminate the information
contained in said programs and/or plans.

Carrying out of investments on: (i) basic infrastructure to improve urban
infrastructure in low-income urban areas, which investments consist of, inter alia,
the expansion of water and sanitation secondary networks, and the connection of
said networks to the primary existing pertinent water and sanitation network, the
construction of micro-drainage systems, including the construction of the section
of the macro drainage systems required to operate the micro-drainage systems, and
the construction of secondary streets and recreational areas; and (ii) flood control,
which investments consist of the construction of drainage systems, in areas to be
selected by ACUMAR in accordance with criteria acceptable to the Bank.

Part 4: Institutional Strengthening and Project Management

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

Strengthening of ACUMAR’s institutional and operational capacity so as to carry
out its functions and responsibilities under the Project, through, inter alia: (i) the
design and implementation of an institutional/operational strengthening plan
(which plan shall include, inter alia, actions to improve said capacity); (ii) the
improvement/rehabilitation of its offices, or the construction or rental of office
space for ACUMAR (as approved by the Bank); and (iii) the provision of technical
assistance to develop capacity, and the acquisition and utilization of equipment
required therefor.

Design and implementation of a communication strategy to inform Project
stakeholders about the contents of the Project.

Establishment of a public information office in ACUMAR, including the provision
of technical assistance to develop capacity, and the acquisition and utilization of
goods required therefor.

(i) Carrying out of the following activities: (A) analytical work and additional
modeling, and gathering data collection, all relating to the water quality monitoring
of the M-R River and the Rio de la Plata; (B) a study on groundwater for gaining
knowledge on control of the high level of the groundwater table in the M-R River
Basin; and (C) any other study, acceptable to the Bank, for the clean-up of the M-
R River Basin; and (ii) establishment of an independent panel of individual experts

r
(e)

(under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank) to provide periodic advice in
connection with the carrying out of the Project.

Strengthening of the operational capacity of the Project executing and financial
teams to assist the Borrower, through MIOPV, to comply with its overall Project
management and fiduciary responsibilities, through, inter alia, the improvement
of the Project executing and financial teams office space (as approved by the
Bank), the provision of technical assistance and training, and the acquisition and
utilization of the goods required therefor.
Section I.

A.

SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Implementation Arrangements

Anti-Corruption Guidelines

(a)

(b)

The Borrower, through MIOPV, shall ensure that Project activities with goods,
works and services procured as set forth in Section III of Schedule 2 to the Original
Loan Agreement and financed out of the proceeds of the Loan are carried out in
accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.

Except as provided in paragraph (a) of Section I.A of this Schedule; the Borrower,
through MIOPYV, shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the 2016 Anti-Corruption Guidelines.

Operational Manual

(a)

(b)

(Cc)

No later than two months after the Effective Date, the Borrower, through MIOPV
shall update and adopt the Operational Manual in a manner and with contents
acceptable to the Bank.

The Borrower, through MIOPV, shall: (i) carry out Parts 2, 3 and 4 of the Project
(ii) cause AySA to carry out Part 1 of the Project; and (iii) cause ACUMAR to
participate in the carrying out of the Project, all in accordance with the provisions
of the Operational Manual.

In case of any conflict among the terms of the Operational Manual, and those of
this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.

Safeguards and Grievance Redress Mechanism

(a)

The Borrower, through MIOPYV, shall:

(i) carry out Parts 2, 3 and 4 the Project, cause AySA to carry out Part 1 of
the Project, and cause ACUMAR to participate in the carrying out of the
Project, all in accordance with the provisions of the Project Environmental
Management Plan and the Resettlement Policy Framework.

(ii) without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (i) above, cause AySA to
carry out Part | of the Project in accordance with the provisions of the
AySA Environmental Management Plan and the AySA_ Social
Management Plan.

(iii) without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (ii) above, cause AySA
to: (1) carry out Part 1 (a) (vi) of the Project in accordance with the SSTP

9
(b)

(c)

(d)

EMP; and (2) carry out Part 1(a) of the Project in accordance with the
ARAP.

(iv) without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (i) above carry out, and
cause ACUMAR to participate in the carrying out of Part 2 of the Project,
all in accordance with the Environmental and Social Management
Framework for Part 2 of the Project and the Industrial Wastewater
Management Plan.

(v) without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (i) above carry out, and
cause ACUMAR to participate in the carrying out of Part 3 of the Project,
all in accordance with the Environmental and Social Management
Framework for Part 3 of the Project.

(vi) ensure, and cause AySA and/or ACUMAR to ensure, that any
works/activities to be carried out under Parts 2 (a) through (d), 3 (a)
through (f), and 4 of the Project do not involve Resettlement.

(vii) unless an alternative acceptable solution is otherwise agreed in writing
with the Bank and in line with the RPF, cause ACUMAR to, prior to the
commencement of each fiscal year during Project implementation, create,
and thereafter maintain throughout Project implementation, a specific
budget line entry in the relevant annual budget of ACUMAR to pay
compensation as required for the implementation of the ARAP.

In case of any conflict among the terms of the Project Environmental Management
Plan, the Resettlement Policy Framework, the AySA Environmental Management
Plan, the AySA Social Management Plan, the SSTP EMP, the ARAP, the
Environmental and Social Management Framework for Part 2 of the Project, the
Environmental and Social Management Framework for Part 3 of the Project, the
Industrial Wastewater Management Plan, and those of this Agreement, the terms
of this Agreement shall prevail.

The Borrower, through MIOPV, shall cause ACUMAR to operate, maintain, and
publicize at all times during Project implementation a grievance mechanism, in
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank (including a web page, which shall
contain, inter alia, information for resolving claims/concerns related to Project
implementation) all to hear and determine fairly and in good faith all complaints
raised in relation to the Project, and take all measures necessary to implement the
determinations made by such mechanism in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.

The Borrower, through MIOPV, shall promptly notify the Bank of any incident or
accident related to or having an impact on the Project which has, or is likely to
have, a significant adverse effect on the environment, the affected communities,
the public or workers, including, explosions, spills, any workplace accidents that
result in death, serious or multiple injury, pollution, any violent labor unrest, any
dispute between the Borrower or security forces (assigned to protect the Project)
and local communities, any case of gender-based violence and violence against

10
minors, or any incidents in or related to international waterways. The notification
shall include sufficient detail regarding the incident or accident, indicating the
immediate measures taken to address it (including information provided by any
contractor and supervising entity), all in accordance with the Operational Manual.

AySA Agreement

(a)

(b)

For purposes of carrying out Part 1 of the Project, the Borrower, through MIOPV,
shall enter into a subsidiary agreement with AySA (the AySA Agreement) to make
available, on a grant basis, a portion of the proceeds of the Loan allocated to
Category (1) (the AySA Grant) to AySA (the AySA Agreement), all under terms
and conditions acceptable to the Bank which shall include, inter alia, those set
forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

(i) The Borrower, through MIOPV, shall exercise its rights and carry out its
obligations under the AySA Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan; and (ii)
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, through MIOPYV, shall not
assign, amend, abrogate, terminate, waive or fail to enforce the AySA Agreement
or any provision thereof.

Institutional Arrangements

(a)

(b)

The Borrower, through MIOPV, shall operate and maintain, at all times during
Project implementation, Project executing and financial teams with composition,
terms of reference, structure and functions and responsibilities acceptable to the
Bank.

The Borrower, through MIOPV, shall cause AySA to operate and maintain at all
times during Project implementation a coordination unit (the AySA CU), with a
structure, functions and responsibilities, acceptable to the Bank, as set forth in the
Operational Manual.

The Borrower, through MIOPV, shall cause AySA to ensure that the AySA CU is,
at all times during Project implementation, headed by a Project coordinator and
assisted by professional staff (including a financial management specialist, a
procurement specialist, and an environmental specialist, as well as any other
technical specialist as selected by AySA) and administrative staff.

CRI Subprojects

(a)

Upon approval of any given CRI Subproject by the MIOPV, the Borrower, through
MIOPV, shall make available a portion of the proceeds of the Loan, on a grant
basis (the CRI Grant), to the relevant Eligible Beneficiary pursuant to the terms of
an agreement (the CRI Subproject Agreement) to be entered into between the
Borrower, through MIOPV and the relevant Eligible Beneficiary, on terms and

1]
(b)

conditions acceptable to the Bank, which terms shall have been approved by the
Bank, and shall include, inter alia, those set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

(i) The Borrower, through MIOPV, shall exercise its rights and carry out its
obligations under each CRI Subproject Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan;
and (ii) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, through MIOPV,
shall not assign, amend, abrogate, terminate, waive or fail to enforce any CRI
Subproject Agreement or any provision thereof.

Infrastructure Subprojects

(a)

(b)

Upon approval of any given Infrastructure Subproject by ACUMAR, and, prior to
the carrying out of any given Infrastructure Subproject which falls under the
territorial and/or administrative jurisdiction of an Eligible Entity, the Borrower,
through MIOPV, shall, and shall cause ACUMAR to, enter into a joint agreement
(the Infrastructure Implementation Agreement) with the relevant Eligible Entity
on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, which terms shall have been
approved by the Bank, and shall include, inter alia, those set forth in Schedule 7
to this Agreement.

(i) The Borrower, through MIOPV, shall exercise its rights and carry out its
obligations under each Infrastructure Implementation Agreement in such manner
as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan; and (ii) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower, through MIOPV, shall not assign, amend, abrogate, terminate, waive or
fail to enforce any Infrastructure Implementation Agreement or any provision
thereof.

Budget Line

The Borrower shall, prior to the commencement of each fiscal year during Project
implementation, create, and thereafter maintain throughout each said fiscal year of Project
implementation, a specific budget line entry in the relevant annual budget in order to keep
track of the corresponding expenditures incurred during Project implementation.

Industrial Wastewater Treatment Plant Transfer, Operation and Maintenance

(a)

In the case that the Borrower, through MIOPV, decides to transfer to a third party
the obligations of operation and maintenance of the industrial wastewater
treatment plant referred to in Part 2 (f) of the Project, the Borrower, through
MIOPV, not later than six (6) months before the operational start-up of said
industrial wastewater treatment plant, shall, and shall cause ACUMAR to, enter
into a joint operation and maintenance agreement (the Operation and Maintenance
Agreement) with the relevant third party, on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank, which shall include, inter alia:

12
(b)

Section I.

(i)

(ii)

the obligation of the Borrower, through MIOPV to take remedial actions
against the relevant third party in case said party shall have failed to
comply with any of its obligations under the Operation and Maintenance
Agreement; and

the obligation of the third party to: (I) operate and maintain the industrial
wastewater treatment plant under Part 2 (f) of the Project with due
diligence and efficiency, and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, technical, financial, economic, environmental and social
standards and practices, in accordance with the provisions of the Loan
Agreement, the Industrial Wastewater Management Plan, and the
Resettlement Policy Framework; (II) not to assign, amend, terminate,
abrogate, repeal, waive or fail to enforce the Operation and Maintenance
Agreement or any provision thereof, unless previously agreed by the Bank;
and (III) if applicable, comply, or cause to be complied, with the
obligations referred to in Sections 5.04, 5.06, 5.07, and 5.10 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods, works, and services, and
operation and maintenance of facilities, plans, documents and records,
cooperation and consultation and visits, respectively) in respect to Part 2
(f) of the Project; and (IV) take or permit to be taken all action to enable
the Borrower, through MIOPV and ACUMAR to comply with their
respective obligations referred to in the Loan Agreement, as applicable to
the carrying out of Part 2 (f) of the Project.

Throughout Project implementation, the Borrower, through MIOPY, shall exercise
its rights and carry out its obligations under the Operation and Maintenance
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank
and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan; and except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower, through MIOPYV, shall not assign, amend, abrogate, terminate,
waive or fail to enforce the Operation and Maintenance Agreement or any
provision thereof.”

Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

The Borrower, through MIOPV, shall furnish to the Bank each Project Report not later
than forty-five calendar days after the end of each calendar semester, covering the calendar

semester.
Section III. Procurement
A. All goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the

proceeds of the Loan, and for which the pertinent contract has been awarded for financing
under the Original Loan Agreement, shall continue being subject to the requirements set
forth in Section III of Schedule 2 to the Original Loan Agreement, including the applicable
definitions in the Appendix to the Original Loan Agreement.

13
B. Except as provided in section A above, all goods, works, and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance
with the requirements set forth or referred to in the Procurement Regulations and the
provisions of the Procurement Plan, as such terms are defined in the Appendix to this
Agreement.

Section IV. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. General.

Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and in accordance
with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the Borrower may withdraw the proceeds
of the Loan to: (a) finance Eligible Expenditures; (b) pay: (i) the Front-end Fee; and (ii) each
Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar premium; in the amount allocated and, if applicable, up to
the percentage set forth against each Category of the following table:

    
  
    
 
  
    
  
 

    
   
  

   

   
 

Amount of the Loan
Allocated
(expressed in USD)

Percentage of Expenditures
to be financed
(inclusive of Taxes, except
for any taxes levied for
financial transactions

235,000,000 100%
9,387,500 100%
612,500 Amount payable pursuant to
Section 2.03 of _ this
Agreement in accordance with
Section 2.07 (b) of the General
Conditions

Amounts payable pursuant to
Section 4.05 (c) of the General
Conditions

>
245,000,000

Category

  

  
  
 

  
     
 
      
    
 
   
 

(1) Works under Part 1(a) of
the Project (except for Parts
I(a)(iii) and 1(a)(v) of the
Project), consultant’s services
under Part 1(b) of the Project.
(2) Eligible Expenditures for
Parts 3(a) to 3(f) of the
Project, and Works and
consulting services under Part
3(g) of the Project
(3) Front-end Fee

 
 

  

 
 

        
 

  

(4) Premia for Interest Rate
Caps and Interest Collars

     
 

TOTAL AMOUNT

14
B. Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.
l. Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A above, no withdrawal shall be made:
(a) for payments made prior to the Signature Date, except that withdrawals up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed $49,000,000 may be made for payments made
prior to this date but on or after the date falling one year prior to the Signature

Date, for Eligible Expenditures.

(b) under Category(1) unless the AySA Agreement has been executed in a manner and
with contents acceptable to the Bank.

sf The Closing Date is March 31, 2022.

Section V. Other Undertakings

A. The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree to amend the Original Loan Agreement as set
forth in Schedule 8 to this Agreement.

15
SCHEDULE 3
Commitment-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage of the
total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date (“Installment Share”).

Level Principal Repayments
Installment Share
On each January | and Julyl
Beginning on January 1, 2027 2.04%
through July 1, 2050
On January 1, 2051

          
 
     
  

2.08%

}

     

16
SCHEDULE 4

Terms and Conditions of the AySA Agreement

The AySA Agreement shall contain, inter alia, the following provisions:

(a)

(b)

(c)

the obligation of the Borrower, through MIOPV:

(1)

(ii)

to promptly disburse to AySA the proceeds of the AySA Grant with due
diligence and efficiency; and

to comply with its obligations referred to in the Loan Agreement, as
applicable to Part 1 of the Project, including the obligation referred to in
Section I.A. of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement;

the right of the Borrower, through MIOPV, to take remedial actions against AySA
in case AySA shall have failed to comply with any of its obligations under the
AySA Agreement (which actions may include, inter alia, the partial or total
suspension and/or cancellation of the proceeds of the AySA Grant (as the case may

be));

the obligation of AySA to:

(i)

(ii)

(iii)

(iv)

(v)

carry out Part | of the Project with due diligence and efficiency, and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, technical, financial,
economic, environmental and social standards and practices, and in
accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement;

use the AySA Grant for the financing of Part 1 of the Project as provided
in the Loan Agreement;

provide the counterpart funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to carry out Part | of the Project;

ensure that Part 1 of the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines (by, for example, allowing
Bank inspection and audit rights under paragraph 9 (d) of the Anti-
Corruption Guidelines);

not to assign, amend, terminate, abrogate, repeal, waive or fail to enforce
the AySA Agreement or any provision thereof, unless previously agreed
by the Bank;

17
(vi)

(vil)

(viii)

(A) maintain, at all times during Project implementation, a financial
management system acceptable to the Bank; and (B) have such financial
statements audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in
accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the
Bank, and promptly thereafter furnish said statements as so audited to the
Borrower and the Bank;

if applicable, to comply, or caused to be complied, with the obligations
referred to in the General Conditions (relating to insurance, land
acquisition, use of goods, works and services, and operation and
maintenance of facilities, plans, documents and records, cooperation and
consultation and visits, respectively) in respect of Part 1 of the Project; and

take or permit to be taken all action to enable: (A) the Borrower, through
MIOPV, to comply with its obligations referred to in the Loan Agreement,
as applicable to the carrying out of Part 1 of the Project; and (B) ACUMAR
to comply with the pertinent provisions of the ACUMAR Resolution, as
applicable to the carrying out of Part 1 of the Project.

18
SCHEDULE 5

Terms of the ACUMAR Resolution

The ACUMAR Resolution shall contain, inter alia, the following provisions:

The commitment of ACUMAR to:

(a)

(b)

(c)

participate in the carrying out of Part 1 of the Project, which participation shall
consist of approving: (i) the timing in which the works under Part 1 (a) of the
Project will be carried out; and (ii) any change to the design of said works that
would impact the quality and quantity of water discharges to the M-R River;

participate in the carrying out of Parts 2, 3 and 4 (a) through (d) of the Project,
which participation shall consist of: (i) providing technical advice and approval in
connection with the procurement process under Parts 2, 3 and 4 (a) through (d) of
the Project; (ii) selecting the Infrastructure Subprojects in accordance with the
criteria set forth in the Operational Manual, and co-signing the pertinent
Infrastructure Implementation Agreement; and (iii) monitoring compliance of the
carrying out of CRI Subprojects and Infrastructure Subprojects; and

take or permit to be taken all action to enable the Borrower, through MIOPYV, to
comply with its obligations referred to in this Agreement, as applicable to the
participation of ACUMAR in the carrying out of the Project.

19
SCHEDULE 6

Terms and Conditions of CRI Subproject Agreements

Each CRI Subproject Agreement shall contain, inter alia, the following provisions:

(a)

(b)

(c)

the obligation of the Borrower, through MIOPYV, to:

(i)

(ii)

promptly make available to each Eligible Beneficiary the proceeds of the
corresponding CRI Grant with due diligence and efficiency, and upon
written request of the Eligible Beneficiary, to make direct payments, out
the proceeds of the pertinent CRI Grant, to the contractors, suppliers
and/or consultants (either firms or individuals), as the case may be; and

to comply with its obligations referred to in the Loan Agreement, as
applicable to the pertinent CRI Subproject, including the obligation
referred to in Section I.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement;

the right of the Borrower, through MIOPV, to take remedial actions against the
pertinent Eligible Beneficiary in case said Eligible Beneficiary shall have failed to
comply with any of its obligations under the pertinent CRI Subproject Agreement
in respect of any CRI Subproject (which actions may include, inter alia, the partial
or total suspension and/or cancellation of the proceeds of the CRI Grant (as the
case may be)); and

the obligation of each Eligible Beneficiary:

(i)

(ii)

(iii)

(iv)

to use the CRI Grant for financing the carrying out of the pertinent CRI
Subproject;

to provide the funds (in accordance with the formula set forth in the
Operational Manual), facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to carry out the corresponding CRI Subproject;

carry out the CRI Subproject with due diligence and efficiency, and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, technical, financial,
economic, environmental and social standards and practices, and in
accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement;

to ensure that the pertinent CRI Subproject is carried out in accordance
with the provisions of the 2016 Anti-Corruption Guidelines;

20
(v)

(vi)

(vii)

if applicable, to comply, or caused to be complied, with the obligations
referred to in Sections 5.04, 5.05, 5.06, 5.07 and 5.10 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, land acquisition, use of goods, works
and services, operation and maintenance of facilities, plans, documents
and records, cooperation and consultation and visits, respectively) in
respect of the pertinent CRI Subproject;

not to assign, amend, terminate, abrogate, repeal, waive or fail to enforce
the CRI Subproject Agreement or any provision thereof unless previously
agreed by the Bank; and

to take or permit to be taken all action to enable the Borrower, through
MIOPV to comply with its obligations referred to in the Loan Agreement,
as applicable to the pertinent CRI Subproject.

21
SCHEDULE 7

Terms and Conditions of Infrastructure Implementation Agreements

Each Infrastructure Implementation Agreement shall contain, inter alia, the following

provisions:

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

the obligation of the Borrower, through MIOPV, to comply with its obligations
under the Loan Agreement, as applicable to Infrastructure Subprojects, including
the obligation referred to in Section I.A of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement;

the obligation of ACUMAR to: (i) select the Infrastructure Subproject in
accordance with the eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational Manual; (ii)
monitor compliance of the carrying out of Infrastructure Subprojects; and (iii)
provide its technical approval in connection with the procurement process under
each Infrastructure Subproject;

the right of the Borrower, through MIOPV and/or ACUMAR to take remedial
actions against the pertinent Eligible Entity in case said Eligible Entity shall have
failed to comply with any of its obligations under the pertinent Infrastructure
Implementation Agreement in respect of any Infrastructure Subproject;

a legal representation by the relevant Eligible Entity providing that, through the
signing of the pertinent Infrastructure Implementation Agreement, said Eligible
Entity has provided its written consent to permit the Borrower, through MIOPV,
to carry out the pertinent Infrastructure Subproject within said Eligible Entity’s
territorial/administrative jurisdiction; and

the obligation of each Eligible Entity to:

(i) not to assign, amend, terminate, abrogate, repeal, waive or fail to enforce
the Infrastructure Implementation Agreement or any provision thereof
unless previously agreed by the Bank;

(ii) ensure that the pertinent Infrastructure Subproject is carried out in
accordance with the provisions of the 2016 Anti-Corruption Guidelines
(by, for example, allowing Bank inspection and audit rights under
paragraph 9 (d) of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines);

(iii) | once the pertinent Infrastructure Subproject has been carried out in a
manner acceptable to the Bank, operate and maintain the investments
supported under said Infrastructure Subproject, with due diligence and
efficiency; and

22
(iv) take or permit to be taken all action to enable the Borrower, through
MIOPV, to comply with its pertinent obligations referred to in the Loan
Agreement, as applicable to the pertinent Infrastructure Subproject.

23
SCHEDULE 8

Amendment to the Original Loan Agreement

The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree to amend the Original Loan Agreement as follows as for
the Signature Date:

l. Article 3.01(a) of the Original Loan Agreement is hereby amended to read in its entirety as
set forth in Article 3.01(a) of this Agreement.

2. Article IV of the Original Loan Agreement is hereby amended to read in its entirety as set
forth in Article IV of this Agreement.

3. Schedule 1 to the Original Loan Agreement is hereby amended to read in its entirety as set
forth in Schedule to this Agreement.

4. Section I of Schedule 2 to the Original Loan Agreement is hereby amended to read as set
forth in Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, except for Sections I.A, I.E(a) and I.E(b) that
shall read, respectively, as follows:

“i Anti-Corruption Guidelines

The Borrower, through MIOPYV, shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance
with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.”

“KE. Institutional Arrangements

(a) The Borrower, through MIOPYV, shall: (i) maintain, at all times during Project
implementation, the Project executing unit (the UCGP); and (ii) operate and
maintain, at all times during Project implementation, the UCOFI, all with a
structure, functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank, as set forth in the
Operational Manual.”

“(b) | The Borrower, through MIOPYV, shall ensure that: (i) the UCGP is, at all times
during Project implementation, headed by a Project coordinator, and assisted by
professional and administrative staff; and (ii) the UCOFI is, at all times during
Project implementation, headed by a Project coordinator, and assisted by
professional staff (including, inter alia, a procurement specialist, and a financial
management specialist) and administrative staff, all in numbers and with terms of
reference, and qualifications and experience, acceptable to the Bank.”

$. The table set forth in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to the Original Loan Agreement is
hereby amended to read in its entirety as follows aimed at excluding financing for taxes levied for
financial transactions and reallocating funds between Category (3) and Category (4):

24
  
  
   

   
  

Amount of the Loan
Allocated
(expressed in USD)

   
  

Percentage of Expenditures
to be financed
(inclusive of Taxes, except
for any taxes levied for

Category
financial transactions

(1) Works under Part 1 (a) of 599,012,000
the Project

(2) Consultants’ services, 20,000,000 100%

goods and Training under Part

1 (b) of the Project

(3) Works, goods and/or 81,000 100% of the amounts
consultants’ services under disbursed under the relevant
CRI Subprojects CRI Grant

     

 
  

 
 
 
   

     
    
  
 

     
 

  
 
    
   
    
  

         
   
   

  

 

  

(4) Eligible Expenditures for 4,519,000 100%
Parts 2 (a) through (d) and 3(a)

through (f) of the Project

(5) Eligible Expenditures for 6,320,000 100%

   

  

Part 4 of the Project

6) Unallocated

(7) Front-end Fee

 
  
   

Amount payable pursuant to
Section 2.03 of _ this
Agreement in accordance with
Section 2.07 (b) of the General
Conditions
Amounts payable pursuant to
Section 2.07 (c) of this

  
           
  
    
   
   

   
  

   
 
 

(8) Premia for Interest Rate
Caps and Interest Collars

   
 

 
 

(9) Works and consultants’
services under Parts 2(f) and
3(g) of the Project

TOTAL AMOUNT

 
     
   

6. The following definitions in the Appendix of the Original Loan Agreement are hereby
amended to read in their entirety as set forth in the respective definitions in the Appendix of this
Agreement: “ACUMAR Resolution”, “AySA Concession Contract”, “AySA_ Environmental
Management Plan”, “AySA Grant”, “AySA Agreement”, “CBA”, “CRI Subproject Agreement”,
“Eligible Beneficiary”, “Industrial Wastewater Management Plan”, “Operational Manual”,
“Project Environmental Management Plan”, “Resettlement Policy Framework”.

q: The following definitions in the Appendix of the Original Loan Agreement are hereby
deleted and the remaining definitions are renumbered accordingly: “Environmental Management
Framework for Part 2 of the Project”, Environmental Management Framework for Part 3 of the
Project”, “Program”, “UEP”.

=
8. The following definitions in the Appendix of the Original Loan Agreement are hereby
added to read in their entirety as set forth in the respective definitions in the Appendix of this
Agreement and the remaining definitions are renumbered accordingly: “ARAP”, “AySA SMP”,
“Environmental and Social Management Framework for Part 2 of the Project”, Environmental
and Social Management Framework for Part 3 of the Project” and “SSTP EMP”.

9. The following definition is hereby added to the Appendix of the Original Loan
Agreement to read in its entirety as follows:

“UCGP” means the Unidad de Coordinadora General del Proyecto, the Borrower’s
Project execution unit referred to in Section I.E (a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, or any
successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.

26
APPENDIX
Definitions

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud
and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”, dated
October 15, 2006.

“2016 Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix to
the General Conditions, the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and
Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”, dated
October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.

“ACUMAR” means the Autoridad de Cuenca Matanza-Riachuelo, the Matanza-Riachuelo
Basin Authority, a public inter-jurisdictional legal entity created pursuant to the Borrower’s
Law No. 26.168 (Ley No. 26.168) dated November 15, 2006 (duly published on the
Borrower’s official gazette on December 5, 2006) for purposes of, inter alia, regulating,
controlling, and promoting all industrial activities, the provision of water and sanitation
and any other activity, which has an impact on the M-R River Basin.

“ACUMAR Resolution” means resolutions No. 98-2009, and No. 03-2010 issued by
ACUMAR and referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, or their successors
acceptable to the Bank.

“ARAP” means AySA’s and ACUMAR’s abbreviated resettlement action plan dated July
17, 2019, acceptable to the Bank, as the same may be amended from time to time with the
Bank’s prior approval.

“AySA” means Agua y Saneamientos Argentinos S.A, a private water and sanitation legal
entity created pursuant to the Borrower’s Decree No. 304/2006 (Decreto No. 304/2006)
dated March 21, 2006 (duly published on the Borrower’s official gazette on March 22,
2006), as amended, and ratified by the Borrower’s Law No. 26.100 (Ley No. 26.100) dated
June 6, 2006 (duly published in the Borrower’s official gazette on June 17, 2006) for
purposes of providing water and sanitation services within the Concession Area (as said
term is defined herein).

“AySA Concession Contract” means the contract (Acuerdo de Vinculacién) entered into
between the Borrower through the former Subsecretaria de Recursos Hidricos (Sub-
Secretariat of Water Resources), and AySA for purposes of providing water and sanitation
services within the Concession Area (as said term is defined herein).

“AySA CU” means the unit referred to in Section I.E.(b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.

“AySA Environmental Management Plan” means AySA’s plan (Plan de Gestion
Ambiental) dated November 24, 2008, acceptable to the Bank, which sets forth, inter alia:
(a) the actions to avoid, minimize or mitigate, and monitor any environmental negative
impact as a result of the carrying out of Part 1 (a) of the Project; (b) a description of the

27
10.

16.

EF

20.

positive impacts as a result of the carrying out of Part 1 (a) of the Project; (c) the guidelines
to be followed in connection with the finding of cultural property; (d) the guidelines to be
followed to prevent natural habitat conversion or degradation; and (e) standard
environmental provisions included or to be included in the standard bidding documents for
the works under Part 1 (a) of the Project (as said terms are defined herein), as said plan
may be amended from time to time with the Bank’s prior approval.

“AySA Grant” means the grant (recursos no reembolsables con afectacion especifica)
provided under Section I.D (a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement to finance the carrying out
of Part 1 of the Project.

“AySA Agreement” means the agreement (Convenio de Transferencia de Recursos)
referred to in Section I.D (a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“AySA Social Management Plan” means the social management plan dated January 25,
2015 prepared by AySA and acceptable to the Bank, which sets forth social management
measures adopted based on the assessment and consultation process carried out for Part 1
of the Project.

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section III.A of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.

“CBA” means the Ciudad Auténoma de Buenos Aires, a political subdivision of the
Borrower, as per title Two of the Borrower’s 1994 Constitution.

“Concession Area” means the area set forth in article 3 of annex 2 to the law that forms
part of the Regulatory Framework (as said term is defined herein).

“CRI Grant” means a grant made out of the proceeds of the Loan to an Eligible Beneficiary
to partially finance the cost of a CRI Subproject in accordance with a formula set forth in
the Operational Manual (as said terms are defined herein).

“CRI Subproject” means any of the investments referred to in Part 2 (e) of the Project.

“CRI Subproject Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in Section I.F (a) of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement

“Eligible Beneficiary” means a micro, small or medium size enterprise (as said type of
enterprises are classified by article 1 of the Borrower’s Law No. 25.300 dated August 16,
2000, and regulated by Resolution No. 22/2001 dated February 15, 2001 issued by the
Borrower’s former Secretariat of Industry, Commerce and Small and Medium Enterprises
(Secretaria de Industria, Comercio y de la Pequefia y Mediana Empresa), as said Law and
Resolution have been amended to the date of this Agreement), or an association of micro,
small and/or medium size enterprises, all duly vested with legal personality, and which has,
or have, met the eligibility criteria to receive a CRI Grant (as said term is defined herein).

“Eligible Entity” means the PBA, a municipality within the territorial jurisdiction of the
PBA and/or AySA (as the case may be), which entity has territorial and/or administrative

28
Zi.

ae:

Adi

24.

22.

jurisdiction in respect of any given Infrastructure Subproject (as said terms are defined
herein).

“Eligible Expenditures for Parts 3(a) to 3(f) of the Project” means (without limitation to
the definition of Eligible Expenditure set forth in the General Conditions) any expenditure
for goods, consulting services, non-consulting services, and/or Training under said Parts of
the Project (as the case may be). For purpose of this definition, the term “Training” means
expenditures (other than those for consulting services) incurred by the Borrower, through
MIOPYV, and/or by ACUMAR (in connection with its participation in the carrying out of
said Parts of the Project), as approved by the Bank on the basis on an annual budget
acceptable to the Bank, to finance reasonable transportation costs and per-diem of trainees
and trainers (as applicable), training registration fees, training materials and rental of
training facilities and equipment under said Parts of the Project.

“Environmental and Social Management Framework for Part 2 of the Project” means the
Borrower’s framework, acceptable to the Bank, dated February, 2009, which sets forth,
inter alia: (a) the applicable institutional and regulatory environmental framework
governing ACUMAR, the CBA and the PBA in respect of Part 2 of the Project; (b) the
guidelines for carrying out the environmental/social screenings/assessments in respect of
Part 2 of the Project; (c) the procedures to mitigate, prevent and manage environmental and
social impacts associated with the carrying out of Part 2 of the Project; (d) the consultation
framework to be carried out during the implementation of Part 2 of the Project; and (e) the
guidelines and procedures to be followed in connection with the finding of cultural
property, as said manual may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the
Bank (as said terms are defined herein), as said framework may be amended from time to
time with the Bank’s prior approval.

“Environmental and Social Management Framework for Part 3 of the Project” means the
Borrower’s framework, acceptable to the Bank, dated November, 2008, which sets forth,
inter alia: (a) the applicable institutional and regulatory environmental framework
governing ACUMAR, the CBA and the PBA in respect of Part 3 of the Project; (b) the
guidelines for carrying out the environmental/social screenings/assessments in respect of
Part 3 of the Project; (c) the procedures to mitigate, prevent and manage environmental and
social impacts associated with the carrying out of Part 3 of the Project; (d) the consultation
framework to be carried out during the implementation of Part 3 of the Project; and (e) the
guidelines and procedures to be followed in connection with the finding of cultural
property, as said manual may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the
Bank (as said terms are defined herein), as said framework may be amended from time to
time with the Bank’s prior approval.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project Financing”, dated December
14, 2018, with the modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.

“Industrial Wastewater Management Plan” means ACUMAR’s environmental
management plan (Plan de Gestién Ambiental para Parque Industrial Curtidor Lanus y
Planta de Tratamiento de Efluentes Industriales) dated October 7, 2015, acceptable to the
Bank, which sets forth, inter alia, (a) the actions to avoid, minimize, or mitigate and

29
26.

oti

28.

29.

30.

3k.

ae

33.

34.

32.

monitor, any environmental negative impact as a result of the carrying out of Part 2 (f) of
the Project; (b) a description of the positive impacts as a result of the carrying out of Part
2 (f) of the Project; (c) the guidelines to be followed in connection with the finding of
cultural property; and (d) standard environmental provisions included in the standard
bidding documents for works under Part 2 (f) of the Project, as said plan may be amended
from time to time with the Bank’s prior approval.

“Infrastructure Implementation Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in
Section I.G (a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Infrastructure Subproject” means any of the investments referred to in Part 3 (g) of the
Project.

“M-R River” means the Matanza-Riachuelo river (a tributary of the Rio de la Plata) which
runs from the southwest to the northeast of the PBA (as said term is defined herein), and
discharges into the Rio de la Plata.

“M-R River Basin” means the hydrographic basin of the M-R River located within portions
of the territorial jurisdiction of the PBA and the CBA (as said terms are defined herein).

“MIOPV” means Ministerio del Interior, Obras Publicas y Vivienda, the Borrower’s
Ministry of the Interior, Public Works and Housing, or any successor thereto acceptable to
the Bank.

“Operational Manual” means the Borrower’s manual, acceptable to the Bank, which sets
forth, inter alia: (a) the criteria for selecting Eligible Entities under the Project; (b) the
criteria for selecting the laboratories referred to in Part 2 (b) (i) of the Project; (c) the
structures, functions and responsibilities of the AySA CU, the Project executing and
financial teams; (d) the Project’s chart of accounts and internal controls; (e) the format of:
(A) the unaudited interim financial reports; and (B) the Financial Statements; (f) the terms
of reference for carrying out the Project audits; (g) the Project indicators (including the
results framework); and (h) the Project disbursement and procurement procedures, as said
manual may be updated and/or amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank.

“Original Loan Agreement” means the loan agreement for the Original Project between the
Borrower and the Bank, dated August 25, 2009, as amended as of the Signature Date (Loan
No. 7706-AR).

“Original Project” means the project described in Schedule 1 to the Original Loan
Agreement.

“PBA” means the Provincia de Buenos Aires, a political subdivision of the Borrower, as
per title Two of the Borrower’s 1994 Constitution.

“PRI” means the Programa de Reconversién Industrial, the industrial reconversion

program for an enterprise located within the M-R River Basin (including an Eligible
Beneficiary) that has been declared a contaminant agent (agente contaminante) by

30
36.

a7:

38.

39.

40.

41.

ACUMAR, which program is reflected in an agreement signed or to be signed between
ACUMAR and said enterprise (including an Eligible Beneficiary).

“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, provided for
under Section IV of the Procurement Regulations, as such plan may be updated from time
to time with the Bank’s Approval.

“Procurement Regulations” means the “World Bank Procurement Regulations for IPF
Borrowers”, dated July 2016, revised November 2017 and August 2018.

“Project Environmental Management Plan” means the Borrower’s plan dated April 22,
2009, acceptable to the Bank (included as Chapter 11 of the Borrower’s environmental
assessment for the Project dated April 21, 2009), which plan sets forth, inter alia: (a) the
measures/actions to be taken during the construction and operation phases of the works to
be carried out under Parts 1, 2 and 3 of the Project to eliminate or offset negative
environmental impacts, or to reduce the same to acceptable levels; and (b) the following
programs: (i) a program to manage and mitigate impacts during the construction phase; (ii)
a program to manage and mitigate impacts associated with industrial conversion; (iii) a
program to monitor environmental trends in the Project’s area of influence (which area
includes the M-R River Basin and the Rio de la Plata); (iv) a program to manage and
respond to the Project’s environmental contingencies; (v) a program to strengthen
ACUMAR’s capacity, and carry out applied research as reflected in Part 4 of the Project;
and (vi) a communication and dissemination program (as said terms are defined herein), as
said plan may be amended from time to time with the Bank’s prior approval.

“Regulatory Framework” means the Borrower’s Law No. 26.221 dated February 28, 2007
(duly published in the Borrower’s official gazette on March 2, 2007) which, inter alia,
approved the regulatory framework that governs the provision of water and sanitation
services within the area stipulated in article 3 of annex 2 to said law, and the Borrower’s
Decree No. 763/2007 dated June 20, 2007 (duly published in the Borrower’s official
gazette on June 22, 2007), which, inter alia, regulates the provisions of said Law No.
26.221.

“Resettlement” means the impact of an involuntary taking of land under the Project, which
taking causes affected persons to have their: (i) standard of living adversely affected; or
(ii) right, title or interest in any house, land (including premises, agricultural and grazing
land) or any other fixed or movable asset acquired or possessed, temporarily or
permanently; or (iii) access to productive assets adversely affected, temporarily or
permanently; or (iv) business, occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely
affected, temporarily or permanently.

“Resettlement Policy Framework” means the Borrower’s framework dated J uly, 2008,
acceptable to the Bank which sets forth, inter alia, the principles and objectives governing
Resettlement preparation and implementation, and a description of the process for
preparing and approving resettlement plans under Parts 1 (a), 2 (e) and 3 (g) of the Project
(as said terms are defined herein) ), as said framework may be amended from time to time
with the Bank’s prior approval.

31
42.

43.

“Signature Date” means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the Bank
signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to “the date of the Loan
Agreement” in the General Conditions.

“SSTP EMP” means AySA’s environmental management plan for the Sudoeste Sludge
Treatment Plant, dated May 2007, acceptable to the Bank which sets forth (a) programs for
preventing, monitoring and mitigating environmental impacts of the construction and
operation of the facilities; (b) a contingency plan to manage situations in case of
emergencies, accidents, and disasters; (c) institutional arrangements for the
implementation of said plan, including communications and community engagements; and
(d) a capacity building program, as said plan may be amended from time to time with the
Bank’s prior approval.

Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions

l.

a

Section 5.13 (Procurement) and Section 5.14 (Anti-Corruption) are deleted in their entirety.

Paragraph 84 (Procurement Plan) and 85 (Procurement Regulations) in the Appendix are
deleted in their entirety and the subsequent paragraphs are renumbered accordingly.

32
