Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

AL
ENTS

©

——_ BETS

O
©)

U

@

 

 

LOAN NUMBER IBRD 8947-YF

Loan Agreement

(Enabling Digital Governance Project)

between
REPUBLIC OF SERBIA
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CO

LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between REPUBLIC OF SERBIA
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01. The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to
and form part of this Agreement.

1.02. Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.

ARTICLE II — LOAN
2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of forty-three million eight
hundred thousand Euros (€43,800,000), as such amount may be converted from
time to time through a Currency Conversion (“Loan’’), to assist in financing the

project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (‘Project’).

2.02. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
Ill of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

2.03. The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.

2.04. The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.

2.05. The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Fixed Spread or such rate as may
apply following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General
Conditions.

2.06. The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.

2.07. The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
3.01.

4.01.

4.02.

5.01.

6.01.

6.02.

9.

ARTICLE III — PROJECT

The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end,
the Borrower, through OITeG, shall carry out the Project in accordance with the
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK

The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that the Project
Implementing Entity’s Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed,
or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the Project
Implementing Entity to perform any of its obligations under the Project.

The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, that the event
specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period
of sixty (60) days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the
Borrower.

ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and eighty (180) days after the
Signature Date.

ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
The Borrower’s Representative, who, inter alia, may agree to modification of the
provisions of this Agreement on behalf of the Borrower through exchange of letters

(unless otherwise determined by the Borrower and the Bank), is its Minister of Finance.

For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Borrower’s
address is:

Ministry of Finance

20 Kneza Milosa St.
11000 Belgrade
Republic of Serbia; and

(b) the Borrower’s Electronic Address is:

Facsimile: E-mail:
(381-11) 3618-961 kabinet @ mfin.gov.rs
_3-

6.03. For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Bank’s address is:

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America; and

(b) the Bank’s Electronic Address is:

Telex: Facsimile: E-mail:
248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391 sndegwa @ worldbank.org
64145(MCI)

AGREED and signed in English as of the Signature Date.

REPUBLIC OF SERBIA

By

 

Name: WA54 MAL
Title AV/L//S OF FISAAUCE
Date: OY /08, 2O4S

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

 
     

By
Authgrized Representative
Name: J/EPHEX’ _A/DCGLWA-
Tite: COUV7ZRY NMAAAGTR

Date: OF) CS / ZOLT
_4-

SCHEDULE 1

Project Description

The objective of the Project is to improve access, quality, and efficiency of selected

administrative e-government services

The Project consists of the following parts:

Component 1. Foundations for Digital Service Delivery

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

Implementation of an interoperability platform as an integrated tool for the safe
and secure exchange of data between government entities, including, inter alia:
(i) the conceptualization and design of the interoperability framework; (ii) the
development and implementation of an interoperability platform; (iii) the design
and development of E-Trusted Services; and (iv) the development of a platform
for enabling mobile access to government services.

Consolidation and interoperability of the most important public registries into one
meta register through: (i) the consolidation of key registries; and (ii) the carrying
out of activities required to support the interoperability of the most important
public registries into one meta register.

Establishment of the Disaster Recovery Data Center (“DRDC’), through the
provision of critical equipment to ensure the safety of all information stored and
maintained in the government’s registries to ensure resilience of government
business operations, including, inter alia: (i) the acquisition of equipment for the
DRDC; and (ii) the carrying out of feasibility studies, cost estimations and
technical specifications, and the acquisition of connectivity equipment and
systems.

Provision of support to ensure compliance with the General Data Protection
Regulation and Personal Data Protection Law and the drafting and implementation
of required e-government bylaws and secondary regulations, including, inter alia:
(i) the elaboration of e-government bylaws and secondary regulations; (ii) the
drafting of a cybersecurity rulebook; (iii) the establishment of a cybersecurity and
data protection department; and (iv) the establishment of a cybersecurity
laboratory and training center, including a security operations center and a
network operations center.

Component 2. Transforming Services for Citizens, Businesses and Government

(a)

Establishment of methodologies, procedures and guidelines for the collection,
storage, management, and use of data and electronic documents, including, inter
(b)

(c)

(d)

_5-

alia, the implementation of a data and document management system to enable the
Borrower to make more informed decisions by increasing its data analytics
capabilities.

Support the development of a comprehensive administrative service catalogue for
services to citizens and businesses, including, inter alia, the preparation of the
administrative service inventory.

Preparation of at least one hundred and fifty (150) As-Is Process Maps from the
administrative service inventory, including, inter alia, the development of a
methodology for their prioritization and the elaboration of To-Be Process Maps
for at least fifty (50) prioritized services.

Digitalization of at least thirty (30) selected online services to be offered to
citizens, businesses and government through the Borrower’s e-government portal
and mobile applications based on specifications and requirements established in
an e-portal rulebook and by using predefined application programming interfaces.

Component 3. Digital Skills Development, Institutional Strengthening and Change
Management

(a)

(b)

(c)

Carry out Training for public servants to improve ICT skills and carry out of
outreach campaigns to promote the uptake of digital services, including, inter alia,
the elaboration of an ICT and human resources strategy and its associated action
plan.

Design of a change management strategy, action plan and communication strategy
and the development and deployment of citizen engagement tools to collect and
respond to citizen feedback and measure citizen satisfaction.

Establishment and operation of the PIU and provision of technical assistance to
support the implementation of Project related activities.
-6-

SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Section I. Implementation Arrangements

A.

Institutional Arrangements

Without limitation to the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall maintain throughout
Project implementation, with composition, resources, terms of reference, and
functions acceptable to the Bank:

(a) a Project implementation unit within OITeG (PIU), to be responsible for:
(i) the overall coordination of all Project implementation activities;
(ii) ensuring that the requirements, criteria, policies, procedures, and
organizational arrangements set forth in the Project Operations Manual are
applied in carrying out the Project; (iii) preparation of all Project
implementation documents, including Project supervision reports, and
(iv) monitoring and evaluation of the Project; and

(b) a Central Fiduciary Unit (CFU), within MoF, to be responsible for the
procurement and financial management of the Project, as detailed in the
Project Operations Manual.

Unless otherwise agreed with the Bank, not later than one (1) month after the
Effective Date, the Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain throughout
Project implementation a Project Steering Committee with responsibilities,
composition and functions as set forth in the Project Operations Manual.

The Borrower shall maintain throughout the Project a management committee
(“Management Committee’) to be responsible for the overall oversight of
implementation of the Project with detailed responsibilities, composition and
functions as set forth in the Project Operations Manual.

Project Operations Manual

The Borrower, through the PIU and CFU, shall carry out the Project in accordance
with the provisions of a manual (the Project Operations Manual), in a manner and
with contents acceptable to the Bank, including inter alia: (a) the indicators to be
used in the monitoring and evaluation of the Project; (b) the procedures for Project
monitoring, supervision and evaluation, including the format and content of the
Project Reports; (c) the composition, rules of operation, and responsibilities of the
Steering Committee, Management Committee and Coordination Council for
E-Government; and (d) the procurement and financial management procedures.
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree in writing, the Borrower shall not
abrogate, amend, suspend, waive, or otherwise fail to enforce the Project
Operations Manual or any provision thereof.

In case of any conflict between the terms of the Project Operations Manual and
those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.

Safeguards

The Borrower, through OITeG, shall ensure that:

(a)

(b)

(c)

the Project is carried out with due regard to appropriate health, safety,
social, and environmental practices and standards, and in accordance with
the Safeguards Instruments;

for each activity under the Project for which the ESMF and the RPF
provide for the preparation of an ESMP and/or a RAP:

(1)

(ii)

proceed to have such ESMP and RAP as appropriate: (A) prepared
and disclosed in accordance with the ESMF and the RPF,
respectively; (B) consulted upon adequately with people affected
by the Project as per the ESMF and the RPF, respectively, and
submitted to the Bank for review and approval; and (C) thereafter
adopted, prior to implementation of the activity; and

take such measures as shall be necessary or appropriate to ensure
compliance with the requirements of such ESMP and RAP ina
manner satisfactory to the Bank;

all measures are taken to implement the RAPs in a manner and timeframe
satisfactory to the Bank. To this end, the Borrower shall ensure that:

(1)

(11)

(ii1)

Funds are made available to cover all the costs of implementing
the RAPs.

Prior to carrying out activities which involve displacement,
Affected Persons shall be compensated at full replacement cost,
resettled and provided with resettlement assistance in accordance
with the Subproject RAPs, as applicable; and

the implementation, monitoring and evaluation of such RAPs is
completed and reported in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
_8-

Z. The Borrower, through OITeG, shall ensure that the obligation to comply with the
relevant Safeguard Instruments is incorporated: (a) in the contracts between the
Borrower and the relevant contractors and any entity (including any engineer)
supervising the Project’s civil works; and (b) in the contracts between the relevant
contractors and the contractors’ subcontractors.

3. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, through OITeG, shall
ensure, and cause to ensure, that none of the provisions of the Safeguard
Instruments is abrogated, amended, repealed, suspended, or waived. In case of any
inconsistencies between the provisions of any of the Safeguard Instruments and
the provisions of this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.

4. The Borrower, through OITeG, shall ensure that: (a) all consultancies related to
technical assistance, design and capacity building under the Project, the application
of whose results could have environmental, social and health and safety
implications, shall only be undertaken pursuant to terms of reference reviewed and
found satisfactory by the Bank; and (b) such terms of reference shall require the
technical assistance, design and capacity building activities to take into account
the requirements of the applicable Bank Safeguards Policies and EHS Guidelines.

5. The Borrower, through OITeG, shall maintain, throughout Project implementation,
and publicize the availability of a grievance redress mechanism, in form and
substance satisfactory to the Bank, to hear and determine fairly and in good faith
all complaints raised in relation to the Project, and take all measures necessary to
implement the determinations made by such mechanism in a manner satisfactory
to the Bank.

Section II. Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank each Project Report not later than
one (1) month after the end of each calendar semester, covering the calendar semester.

Section III. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. General

Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and
in accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the Borrower
may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to: (a) finance Eligible Expenditures; and (b) pay
the Front-end Fee; in the amount allocated and, if applicable, up to the percentage set forth
against each Category of the following table:
 

Percentage of
Expenditures to be
financed
(inclusive of Taxes other
than Value Added Tax
and Customs Duties)

Amount
of the Loan
Category Allocated
(expressed in
EUR)

(1) Goods, works, non-consulting
services, consulting services,

Training and Operating Costs 43,690,500

for the Project

Amount payable pursuant
to Section 2.03 of this
(2) Front-end Fee Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions

(OTA ANON sown |

For the purpose of this table, the custom duties and value added tax for the
importation and supply of goods and services, within the Borrower’s territory and for the
purpose of the implementation of the Project, shall not be financed out of Loan proceeds.
The Borrower confirms that the importation and supply of goods and services, within the
Borrower’s territory and for the purpose of the implementation of the Project, shall be
exempted from customs duties and value added tax.

B. Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

l. Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A above, no withdrawal shall be made for
payments made prior to the Signature Date, except that withdrawals up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed Euro 4,000,000 may be made for payments made
prior to this date but on or after March 11, 2019, for Eligible Expenditures. In
accordance with Section 5.13 of the General Conditions, said Eligible
Expenditures shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in the Procurement Regulations and the provisions of the Procurement
Plan.

Zz. The Closing Date is June 30, 2024.
SectionIV. Other Undertakings

The Borrower shall provide promptly as needed during Project implementation,
an amount equivalent to EUR 4,380,000 as counterpart funds for the Project.
-10-

SCHEDULE 3
Commitment-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment
Date (“Installment Share’’).

Level Principal Repayments

Principal Payment Date Installment Share

On each May 15 and November 15
Beginning May 15, 2024
through November 15, 2033

     
 
    
-1]1-

APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

l.

“Affected Person” means a person or entity who, on account of the execution of
the Project, has experienced or would experience direct economic and social
impacts caused by: (a) the involuntary taking of land resulting in: (i) relocation or
loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources
or means of livelihood, whether or not such person must move to another location;
or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and protected
areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such person; and, “Affected
Persons”, means more than one such Affected Person.

‘Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix
to the General Conditions, the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud
and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”,
dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.

“‘As-Is Process Map” means a process map which reflects the current state of an
administrative service and identifies all the steps and business processes needed to
provide said service to the end user.

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section III.A of Schedule 2
to this Agreement.

“CFU” means the unit referred to in Section I.A.1(b) of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.

“Coordination Council for E-Government” means the council established pursuant
to Government’s Decree No. 02-11209/2017, dated November 20, 2017, which
shall provide strategic guidance to OITeG, in a manner set forth in the Operational
Manual.

“Disaster Recovery Data Center” or “DRDC” means the center referred to in
Component 1(c) of the Project.

“EHS Guidelines” means the World Bank Group Environmental, Health and
Safety Guidelines published on www. ifc.org/ehsguidelines, as said guidelines are
updated from time to time.

“Environmental and Social Management Framework” or “ESMF” means the
environmental and social management framework, prepared by OITeG,
satisfactory to the Bank, and disclosed on the Bank’s website on February 22, 2019
setting out the principles, rules, guidelines, and procedures to screen and assess the
environmental and social impacts (including health and safety issues) of the
11.

12.

13.

18.

19.

20.

-12-

activities which will be identified and appraised during Project implementation,
and containing measures and plans to avoid, minimize, mitigate, and/or offset
adverse impacts and/or reduce said adverse impacts to acceptable levels, and
enhance positive impacts, provisions for estimating and budgeting the costs of such
measures, and information on the agency or agencies responsible for addressing
project impacts, as said instrument may be amended from time to time with the
Bank’s prior written agreement.

“Environmental and Social Management Plan” or “ESMP” means the plans to be
prepared by the OITeG, as required, satisfactory to the Bank, and to be disclosed
on the Borrower’s website during the implementation of the Project, which details
(a) the measures to be taken during the implementation and operation of the Project
to avoid, minimize, mitigate or offset adverse environmental and social impacts
(including health and safety issues), or to reduce them to acceptable levels; and
(b) the actions needed to implement these measures, as said instrument may be
amended from time to time with the Bank’s prior written agreement.

““E-Trusted Services” means a service provided by a service provider accredited
under EU Regulation No. 910/2014, dated July 23, 2014 (Electronic Identification
and Trust Services for Electronic Transactions in the Internal Market) and
compliant with EU standards and regulations.

“EU” means European Union.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project

Financing”, dated December 14, 2018.

“General Data Protection Regulation” means EU Regulation No. 2016/679, dated
May 25, 2018.

“ICT” means information and communications technology.

“Implementing Entity” means OITeG (as defined below).

“Implementing Entity’s Legislation” means the Government Bylaw 05
No. 110-7109/2017, duly published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette No. 73,
dated July 28, 2017, as amended.

“Management Committee” means the committee referred to in Section I.A.3 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

‘““MoP” means the Borrower’s ministry of finance, or any successor thereto.

“OITeG” means Office of Information Technologies and e-Government,
established pursuant to the Implementing Entity’s Legislation.
dis

be:

23.

24.

25.

26.

27.

28.

29.

-13-

"Operating Costs" means expenditures incurred by the Borrower, through OITeG,
on account of the Project implementation, including, inter alia, expenditures for
office supplies, utilities, communication tools, advertisement fees, translation and
interpretation services, transportation costs, equipment insurance, printing and
publications, travel per diem allowances and accommodation costs for PIU and
CFU staff, and salaries for selected CFU staff, including taxes and social
contributions, but excluding salaries for the Borrower's civil servants.

‘Personal Data Protection Law” means the law published in the Borrower’s
Official Gazette No. 87 on November 13, 2018.

“PIU” means the Project implementation unit referred to in Section I.A.1(a) of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Procurement Regulations” means, for purposes of paragraph 85 of the Appendix
to the General Conditions, the “World Bank Procurement Regulations for IPF
Borrowers”, dated July 2016, revised November 2017 and August 2018.

“Project Implementing Entity” means OITeG.

‘Project Operations Manual” means the manual referred to in Section I.B of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Resettlement Action Plan” or “RAP” means the instrument to be prepared in
accordance with the procedures and requirements of the Resettlement Policy
Framework, which includes the principles, procedures, organizational
arrangements and budget to implement the resettlement related activities under the
Subproject, as said resettlement action plan may be revised from time to time with
the prior written agreement of the Bank and “ RAPs” means, collectively, all such
RAPs.

“Resettlement Policy Framework” or “RPF” means the resettlement policy
framework prepared and adopted by OITeG, satisfactory to the Bank, and
disclosed on the Bank’s website on February 22, 2019, which sets out the
resettlement principles, organizational arrangements (including consultation and
budget), and design criteria to be applied to resettlement related Project activities
to be prepared during Project implementation, as such framework may be amended
from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank.

“Safeguard Instruments” means collectively, the Environmental and Social
Management Framework, Environmental Management Plan and Resettlement
Actions Plan and Resettlement Policy Framework and “Safeguard Instrument”
means any of such Safeguards Instruments.
30.

31.

aa.

ke

34.

-14-

“Safeguard Policies” means, the Operational Policies (Ops) and Bank Procedures
(BPs) of the Bank, namely OP/BP 4.01 (Environmental Assessment), OP/BP 4.11
(Physical Cultural Resources) and OP/BP 4.12 (Involuntary Resettlement); they
can be found at https://policies.worldbank.org.

“Signature Date” means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the
Bank signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to “the
date of the Loan Agreement” in the General Conditions.

“Steering Committee” means the committee referred to in Section I.A.2 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“‘To-Be Process Map” means the process map which identifies the future state of
the service and the modifications needed to provide an administrative service more
efficiently.

"Training" means Project related study tours, training courses, seminars,
workshops and other training activities, including costs of training materials, space
and equipment rental, travel, accommodation and per diem costs of trainees and
trainers, trainers’ fees, and other training related miscellaneous costs.
