Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

C : “NEAT
" A §
Cums iil & h

DOCUMENTS

LOAN NUMBER 8955-GE

Loan Agreement

(Innovation, Inclusion and Quality Project — GEORGIA [2Q)

between
GEORGIA
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between GEORGIA (“Borrower”)

and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(“Bank”). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:

1.02.

2.01.

2.02.

2.03.

2.04.

2.05.

2.07.

3.01.

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to
and form part of this Agreement.

Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IIT — LOAN
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of ninety million Euro
(€90,000,000), (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1
to this Agreement (“Project”).

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.

The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.

The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Fixed Spread or such rate as may
apply following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General
Conditions.

The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.

ARTICLE II — PROJECT
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this

end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project, through MESCS, and shall cause the
Project to be carried out by the Project Implementing Entity in accordance with the
4.01.

4.02.

5.01.

DAZ.

wD

provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and the Project Agreement.

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK

The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that the
Project Implementation Entity’s Legislation has been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability
of the Project Implementing Entity to perform any of its obligations under the
Project Agreement.

The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that the
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a
period of sixty (60) days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to
the Borrower.

ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS

The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:

(a) The Project Operational Manual has been adopted in a manner satisfactory
to the Bank.

(b) The MDF Project Operational Manual has been adopted in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank.

(c) The Subsidiary Agreement has been executed in a manner satisfactory to
the Bank.

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and twenty (120) days after
the Signature Date.
6.01.

6.02.

6.03.

ui we

ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Finance, or any successor thereto.

For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Borrower’s
address is:

Ministry of Finance
16 Gorgasali Street
0114 Tbilisi
Georgia; and

(b) the Borrower’s Electronic Address is:

E-mail:
publicdebt@mof. ge

For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Bank’s address is:

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America; and

(b) the Bank’s Electronic Address is:
Telex: Facsimile: E-mail:

248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391 mtembon@worldbank.org
64145(MCI)
AGREED as of the Signature Date.

GEORGIA

By

  

   

Authorized R¢presentative

Name: tvane M atelavarian}
Title: M ‘nister at LE rnance

Date: june Ai, 2044

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

° Nite

Authorized Representative

Name: Mere Miya aes

Title: Resvore ivector for ty Soutt, Gucasus
Date: Su Ve IZ LO lg
-5-

SCHEDULE 1
Project Description

The Project development objectives are to: (i) expand access to preschool
education; and (ii) improve the quality of education and learning environments.

The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1: Improving Quality of and Access to Early Childhood Education and Care

Support to facilitate expanded access to quality pre-school education in Selected Pre-
Schools, including through the following:

(a) Improving the quality of ECEC programs across the country.

(b) Increasing equitable access to Pre-School education for successful
transition to school.

(c) Improving infrastructure to support innovative primary education,
including Pre-School.

Part 2: Fosterin uality Teaching and Learning in General Education

Support to provide a learning environment that is conducive to quality education in
Selected General Education Schools, including through the following:

(a) Improving the educational infrastructure to support learning.
(b) Supporting the scaling up of the whole-school improvement pilot.

(c) Supporting capacity-building of teachers and school leaders to adapt,
develop, and implement school-based curriculum.

(d) Development of a national assessment framework.

Part 3: Strengthening Financing Options and Promoting Internationalization in
Higher Education

Support to improve the quality and international competitiveness of higher education,
including through the following:

(a) Development of new options for higher education financing, including
performance-based options to support the Borrower’s strategic objectives.
aie

(b) Establishment of a competitive innovation fund for public and private
universities.

(c) Promoting internationalization of higher education.

(d) Strengthening the quality of pre-service teacher education programs for all

levels of education professionals from the inception.

Part 4: System Strengthening and Stakeholder Communication

Support to facilitate a shift in attitude towards learning, including through the following:

(a) Supporting data-driven decision-making accessible to the entire education
system.
(b) Communication and stakeholder consultations for education reform to

help the Borrower craft an effective communication strategy on the current
education reforms.

Part 5: Supporting Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluations

Support capacity-building for effective management and monitoring of the Project
including provision of Operating Costs, Training, outreach and awareness campaigns,
consulting services, monitoring and evaluation, and Project audits; for: (a) PMT; and (b)
PMU.
av.

SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Section I.

A.

l.

Institutional Arrangements

The Borrower shall: (a) vest the overall responsibility for the implementation,
coordination and monitoring of its Respective Parts of the Project in the Ministry
of Education, Science, Culture and Sport (MESCS) which shall also retain the
responsibility for strategic guidance and overall Project oversight; and (b) vest on
the Project Implementation Entity (PIE) the implementation of its Respective Parts
of the Project.

The Borrower, through MESCS shall establish a PMU within thirty (30) days of
Effective Date under MESCS (the PMU); and delegate the responsibility for
managing the day-to-day implementation of the Project to the PMU and ensure
that the PMU operate and it is maintained throughout Project implementation with
qualified staff in sufficient numbers, as well as adequate funds, facilities, services
and other resources for Project implementation (including, procurement, financial
management, environmental and social aspects and monitoring and evaluation), all
acceptable to the Bank.

The Borrower shall cause that representatives from the MESCS and its
subordinated organizations involved in the implementation of the Project,
coordinate through established mechanisms the implementation of activities under
the Project.

Subsidiary Agreement

To facilitate the carrying out of the Project Implementing Entity’s Respective Parts
of the Project, the Borrower shall make part of the proceeds of the Loan available
to the Project Implementing Entity as allocated to Category (2) of the Table under
Section III.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement on a grant basis under a subsidiary
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower, through the Ministry of
Finance, the Ministry of Regional Development and Infrastructure (MRDIJ) and the
Project Implementing Entity, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank
(“Subsidiary Agreement”).

The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish
the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Agreement or any of its
provisions.
Implementation Arrangements

Project Operations Manual

Without limitation to the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, the
Borrower shall, through MESCS, ensure that: (a) the Project is carried out in
accordance with the Project Operational Manual (POM), and (b) the POM, or any
part thereof is not amended, waived, suspended or abrogated without the Bank’s
prior written concurrence, and in case of any inconsistency between the provisions
of the POM and those of this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall
prevail.

Safeguards

The Borrower shall, through MESCS, and shall cause the Project Implementing
Entity (PIE) to: (1) carry out, the Project in accordance with the provisions of the
Safeguards Instruments; and (ii) ensure that any contracts for civil works under the
Project incorporate the pertinent requirements of Safeguard Instruments and
include codes of conduct in form and substance acceptable to the Bank, detailing,
inter alia, measures that need to be undertaken by contractor and sub-contractors
on environmental, health and safety including gender-based violence.

Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure, through
MESCS, and shall cause PIE to ensure, that none of the provisions of the Safeguard
Instruments is abrogated, amended, repealed, suspended or waived. In case of any
inconsistencies between the provisions of any of the Safeguard Instruments and
the provisions of this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.

The Borrower shall maintain, through MESCS, and shall cause PIE to maintain,
throughout Project implementation, and publicize the availability of a grievance
redress mechanism, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, to hear and
determine fairly and in good faith all complaints raised in relation to the Project,
and take all measures necessary to implement the determinations made by such
mechanism in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.

The Borrower shall, through MESCS and shall cause PIE to, throughout the period
of Project implementation:

(a) take all measures necessary on its part to collect, compile and furnish to
the Bank through Project Reports, and promptly in a separate report or
reports, if so requested by the Bank, information on the status of
compliance with the Safeguard Instruments, all such reports in form and
substance acceptable to the Bank, setting out, among other things: (i) the
status of implementation of the Safeguard Instruments; (ii) conditions, if
any, which interfere or threaten to interfere with the implementation of the
-9-

Safeguard Instruments; and (iii) corrective and preventive measures taken
or required to be taken to address such conditions; and

(b) promptly notify the Bank of any incident or accident related to or having
an impact on the Project, which has, or is likely to have, a significant
adverse effect on the environment, the affected communities, the public or
workers.

The Borrower shall ensure, through MESCS, and shall cause PIE to ensure, that
technical assistance under the Project, shall only be undertaken pursuant to terms
of reference reviewed and found satisfactory by the Bank such terms of reference
to ensure that the technical assistance takes into account, and calls for application
of the Bank’s Safeguard Policies.

Section II. Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation

The Borrower shall, through MESCS, and shall cause the PIE to furnish to the

Bank each Project Report not later than one month after the end of each calendar semester,
covering the calendar semester.

Section III. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

A.

General

Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and
in accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the
Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to: (a) finance Eligible
Expenditures; and (b) pay: (i) the Front-end Fee; and (ii) each Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar premium; in the amount allocated and, if applicable, up to the
percentage set forth against each Category of the following table:
-10-

Percentage of
Expenditures to be
financed
(inclusive of Taxes)

Amount of the Loan
Category Allocated
(expressed in EUR)

(1) Works, Goods, non-consulting
services, consulting services,
Operating Costs and Training
for the Project except for eet ennnee
Parts 1(c), Part 2(a) and Part 5
(a) for the Project

Works, Goods, non- consulting

services, consulting services,

Operating Costs and Training 60,000,000
under Part l(c), Part 2(a) and

Part 5(a) for the Project

Amount payable pursuant

to Section 2.03 of this
(3) Front-end Fee 225,000 Agreement in accordance

with Section 2.07 (b) of

the General Conditions

Amount due pursuant to
(4) Interest Rate Cap or Interest Section 4.05 (0) ofthe

Rate Collar premium —
General Conditions

B. Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

 

hs Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A above, no withdrawal shall be made for
payments made prior to the Signature Date, except that withdrawals up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed Euro 9,000,000 may be made for payments made
prior to this date but on or after March 1, 2019, for Eligible Expenditures.

me The Closing Date is March 31, 2026.
-ll-

SCHEDULE 3
Commitment-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage
of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date
(“Installment Share”).

Level Principal Repayments

Principal Payment Date Installment Share

On each May 15 and November 15
3.33%

 
 
    

   

   
   

Beginning November 15, 2031
through November 15, 2045

On May 15, 2046 3.43%

    
-12-

APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

Ls

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix
to the General Conditions, the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud
and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”,
dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section III.A of Schedule 2
to this Agreement.

‘“ECEC” means early childhood, education and care.

“Environmental and Social Management Framework” or “ESMF” means the
framework for the Project prepared by the Borrower, and disclosed on the
Borrower’s and on MDF’s respective websites on February 22, 2019, and on the
Bank’s website on February 25, 2019 which sets forth, inter alia, the modalities
for site-specific environmental and social screening, including: (a) guidelines for the
identification of existing environmental and social conditions and potential direct
and indirect environmental and social impacts and risks resulting from the carrying
out of the Project; (b) guidelines for the carrying out of environmental and social
assessments and the preparation of environmental and social management plans
(ESMPs), when applicable; (c) recommendation of mitigation measures for each
negative impact identified; (d) measures for enhancing each identified positive
impact; and (e) guidelines for the preparation of environmental and social
monitoring plans for tracking the application of the mitigation measures, as said
framework may be amended from time to time with the Bank’s prior approval.

“Environmental and Social Management Plan” or “ESMP” means the instrument
prepared by the Borrower and MDF, as applicable, satisfactory to the Bank, and
to be disclosed by the Borrower and MDF as applicable, and on the Bank’s website
which details: (a) the measures to be taken during the implementation and
operation of the Project to avoid, minimize, mitigate or offset adverse
environmental and social impacts (including health and safety issues), or to reduce
them to acceptable levels; and (b) the actions needed to implement these measures,
as said instrument may be amended from time to time with the Bank’s prior written
agreement.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project
Financing”, dated December 14, 2018.

“General Education School” means a school offering primary, basic and secondary
education.
10.

11.

12.

i.

14.

15.

» tt.

“MDF” means the Municipal Development Fund of Georgia, a legal entity of
public law under the Borrower’s laws, or any successor thereto.

“MDF Project Operational Manual” or “MDF/POM” means the manual prepared
for the Project, acceptable to the Bank, prepared and adopted by MDF, for MDF
Respective Parts of the Project, describing and setting forth procedures inter alia,
for the activities and timetable of actions to be carried out under the Project, the
staff of the PMT, the fiduciary, technical and operational aspects and procedures
for implementation of the Project, including the financial management procedures
(budgeting, accounting and internal control, disbursement and flow of funds,
financial reporting, annual reports, internal and external audit arrangements
procedures and including the Project specific chart of accounts), procurement
procedures, monitoring and evaluation arrangements, and other fiduciary and
administrative arrangements and necessary terms of reference, as the same may be
amended from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank.

"MESCS” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and
Sports or any successor thereto.

“MRDI” means the Ministry of Regional Development and Infrastructure, or any
successor thereto.

“Operating Costs” means the reasonable incremental operating expenditures
incurred by the PMUs, which would not exist absent the Project, required for an
efficient Project implementation and monitoring, printing and publication
including costs for office rent, operation and maintenance of vehicles, office
equipment and supplies, communication costs, expenditures relating to outreach
and awareness campaigns, support for information systems, translations, bank
charges, travel and per diem costs, salaries of the contractual staff (excluding
consulting services and salaries of officials of the Borrower’s civil service, and
other reasonable expenditures directly associated with the carrying out of the
Project, all based on annual budgets acceptable to the Bank.

“Pre-School” means a school offering pre-primary school education to children
age 5 to 6.

“Procurement Regulations” means, for purposes of paragraph 85 of the Appendix
to the General Conditions, the “World Bank Procurement Regulations for IPF
Borrowers”, dated July 2016, revised November 2017 and August 2018.

“Project Implementing Entity” or “PIE” means the legal entity of public law, the
Municipal Development Fund of Georgia established pursuant to Presidential
Decree No. 294 dated June 7, 1997.
16.

17.

18.

19,

20.

AA.

fas

win Pc

“Project Implementing Entity’s Legislation” means the Charter of the Municipal
Development Fund of Georgia established pursuant to Decree No. 118 of the
Government of Georgia dated July 23, 2005, as amended as of today.

“Project Management Team” or “PMT” means the team established within MDF
referred to in Section I.A of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, or any
successor thereto as agreed between the Borrower and the PIE.

“Project Management Unit” or “PMU” means the unit established within MESCS
referred to in Section I.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement or any successor
thereto as agreed between the Borrower and the Bank.

“Project Operational Manual” or “POM” means the manual prepared for the
Project, acceptable to the Bank, prepared and adopted by the Borrower, through
MESCS, for MESCS Respective Parts of the Project, describing and setting forth
procedures inter alia, for the activities and timetable of actions to be carried out
under the Project the respective roles and responsibilities of the Borrower’s
subordinated agencies, the staff of the PMU, the fiduciary, technical and
operational aspects and procedures for implementation of the Project, including
the financial management procedures (budgeting, accounting and internal control,
disbursement and flow of funds, financial reporting, annual reports, internal and
external audit arrangements procedures and including the Project specific chart of
accounts), procurement procedures, monitoring and evaluation arrangements, and
other fiduciary and administrative arrangements and necessary terms of reference,
as the same may be amended from time to time with the prior written agreement
of the Bank.

“Resettlement Policy Framework” or “RPF” means the framework prepared and
adopted by the Borrower, satisfactory to the Bank, properly disclosed in-country
on the Borrower’s and the MDF’s website on February 22, 2019 and on the Bank’s
website on February 25, 2019, which sets out the resettlement principles,
organizational arrangements (including consultation and budget), and design
criteria to be applied to resettlement related Project activities to be prepared during
Project implementation, as such framework may be amended from time to time
with the prior written agreement of the Bank.

“Respective Parts of the Project” means, in respect of: (a) MESCS Part 1(a) and
(b), Part 2(b), (c) and (d), Part 3, Part 4 and Part 5 (b) of the Project; and (b) PIE
Part 1(c), Part 2 (a) and Part 5 (a) of the Project.

“Safeguard Instruments” means collectively, the ESMF, ESMP, Resettlement
Policy Framework, Resettlement Action Plan and “Safeguard Instrument” means
any of such Safeguards Instruments.
y Ae

24.

7 aS

26.

si.

28.

29.

2 1 =

“Safeguard Policies” means, the Operational Policies (OPs) and Bank Procedures
(BPs) of the Bank, namely OP/BP 4.01 (Environmental Assessment), OP/BP 4.12
(Involuntary Resettlement); they can be found at https://policies.worldbank.org.

“School Readiness Program” means MESCS’s program and curriculum for
children in Pre-schools.

“Selected General Education Schools” means General Education Schools selected
according to criteria provided in the POM and in the MDF/POM.

“Selected Pre-Schools” means Pre-Schools selected according to criteria provided
in the POM and in the MDF/POM.

“Signature Date” means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the
Bank signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to “the
date of the Loan Agreement” in the General Conditions.

“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.B of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Training” means expenditures (other than those for consultants’ services)
incurred by the Borrower in connection with the carrying out of training activities
(such as seminars, workshops, including the reasonable travel costs (i.e.
accommodation, transportation and per-diem, inter alia) of trainees and trainers (if
applicable), training registration fees, catering, rental of training facilities and
equipment, logistics and printing services, as well as training materials, all for the
purposes of, and directly related to, the activities of the Project.
