Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

LOAN NUMBER 8730-GT

Loan Agreement

(Crecer Sano: Guatemala Nutrition and Health Project)

between
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA

and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated May AS 200
LOAN AGREEMENT

Agreement dated N\ AS _, 20194 between REPUBLIC OF
GUATEMALA (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank’’).

(A) Whereas the Borrower has informed the Bank that it will use budgeted funds to
pre-finance the Eligible Expenditures under Part 2 of the Project.

(B) Whereas the Bank has agreed to Reimburse the Borrower an equivalent amount in
Dollars from the Loan Account for said pre-financed Eligible Expenditures in accordance with
paragraph 2.2 of the Disbursement Guidelines, and as provided in Sections IV and V of Schedule
2 to this Agreement, which Reimbursement will thereafter be registered by the Borrower in its
corresponding annual budget, and be used in conformity with the Borrower’s budgetary laws.

The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01. The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.

1.02. Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.

ARTICLE If — LOAN

2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred million Dollars ($100,000,000), as such
amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance
with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the
project described in Schedule | to this Agreement (“Project”).

2.02. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

2.03. The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.

2.04. The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.

2.05. The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to the
Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that upon a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
2.06.

2.07.

2.08.

3.01.

4.01.

-2-

Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e)
of the General Conditions.

The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

(a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest
rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or
(B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate
based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the
Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.

(b) Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is accepted
by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in the General
Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV
of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.

ARTICLE I — PROJECT

The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall carry out the Project through MSPAS and in coordination with MIDES and
SESAN (as the case may be), all in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and the Inter Institutional Arrangements.

Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the Project
is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:
(a) the regulations mentioned in Section IV. B. 1(b)(ii) of Schedule 2 to this

Agreement shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so
as to affect materially and adversely, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of
4.02.

5.01.

DAL

6.01.

6.02.

6.03.

3.

MIDES and the Financial Institution to comply with the Anti-Corruption
Guidelines.

(b) The Financial Institution shall have failed to comply with the Anti-Corruption
Guidelines.

The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that any of the
events specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of
30 days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower.

ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following, namely, that the
Operations Manual has been adopted in a manner and with contents acceptable to the Bank.

The Effectiveness Deadline is September 18, 2019.
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Public Finance.
The Borrower’s Address is:
Ministerio de Finanzas Publicas
8* Avenida 20-59
Centro Civico, Zona 1

Guatemala, Guatemala

Telex:
(502)23743000 Ext. 11801

The Bank’s Address is:

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America

Telex: Facsimile:

248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391
64145(MCT)
-4-

AGREED Giedemala Cia Rayublic «of Guaknale , as of the day and year

first above written.

    
 

uthdrized Representative

me: i \cto/ Ma chne 2.

Title: Minster of MA mance

INTERNTIONAL BANK FOR
RECONTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By Coywahn Can
Authorized Representative

Name: Senna loo)  Sakho
Title: Coontru O10 echo for (ontyal Amen'cn
..o

SCHEDULE 1
Project Description

The objective of the Project is to improve selected practices, services and behaviors known

to be key determinants of chronic malnutrition (with an emphasis on the first 1,000 days of life) in
the Intervention Areas.

The Project consists of the following parts:

Part 1. Providing Inter-sectoral Services to Address Chronic Malnutrition Risk Factors.

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

Providing primary health care interventions of nutrition and health services to mothers and
children; and increasing the access to, and the quality of, said health care interventions,
through, inter alia: (i) the carrying out of selected health infrastructure investments, which
consists of, inter alia, rehabilitation or construction of health posts in the Intervention
Areas; (ii) the rehabilitation of selected community centers; (iii) the purchase of medical
equipment, and medical and non-medical supplies; (iv) the carrying out of health
promotion activities; and (v) the carrying out of studies and training on the primary health
care package to relevant stakeholders.

Promoting behavioral change interventions through, inter alia: (i) the carrying out of
health promotion activities, including workshops; (ii) fostering interpersonal
communication and culturally appropriate local communication strategies; and (iii)
providing technical assistance to improve the CCT Program.

Improving access to safe drinking water and sanitation in the Intervention Areas through,
inter alia: (i) the design, construction and/or rehabilitation of small water and sanitation
systems in the Intervention Areas (Water Subprojects); (ii) the provision of water filters
for households; (iii) the carrying out of tests of water systems to be rehabilitated; and (iv)
strengthening the water quality monitoring system and follow up mechanisms to promote
compliance with water quality standards.

Support the interinstitutional coordination for the implementation of the following
activities set forth in the National Strategy to Prevent Chronic Malnutrition 2016-2020 and
follow up those activities to reduce chronic malnutrition, through, inter alia: (i) the
improvement of existing information systems to ensure interoperability, through the
RUUN and the existence of tools to monitor implementation progress of said strategy; (ii)
the carrying out of studies on the causes and roles of risk factors in the development of
chronic malnutrition; (iii) the evaluation of interventions to address chronic malnutrition;
and (iv) the preparation and implementation of a nationwide communication strategy for
health and social workers, relevant stakeholders and the general population.

Part 2. Moving the Focus towards Results.

Carrying out a Results-based Eligible Expenditure Program to: (a) promote the use of
health services, including timely prenatal care; (b) promote behavioral changes, including
exclusive breastfeeding during the first six (6) months of life; and (c) strengthen the CCT
Program in the Intervention Areas, as further described in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
fe

Part 3. Supporting Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation.

Provision of support to MSPAS for the carrying out of Project management, coordination
and evaluation, including, inter alia: (a) the carrying out of the Project audits; (b) the
provision of office equipment; (c) the carrying out of training on project management,
coordination and evaluation; (d) the provision of technical support on procurement,
safeguards and financial management requirements, including the hiring of MSPAS’ staff;
(e) the financing of Operating Costs; and (f) the carrying out of an independent verification
of DLI achievement.
A

SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Section I. Implementation Arrangements

A.

l.

Institutional Arrangements

Throughout Project implementation, the Borrower shall ensure that MSPAS functions in a
manner and with adequate staffing and budgetary resources, all acceptable to the Bank, and
as set forth in the Operations Manual.

No later than three (3) months after the Effective Date, the Borrower, through MSPAS,
shall hire and maintain throughout the implementation of the Project, as a minimum,
professionals in the following areas: financial management, accounting, budget,
procurement, environment, and social, all with functions and responsibilities as set forth
in the Operations Manual and with qualifications and experience, and under terms of
reference, acceptable to the Bank.

Inter Institutional Arrangements

For purposes of facilitating the implementation of the Project, and no later than three (3)
months after the Effective Date, the Borrower, through MSPAS, shall enter into separate
arrangements with: (a) MIDES; and (b) SESAN, (“Inter Institutional Arrangements”), all
under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, including, inter alia: (i) the
establishment of the coordination mechanisms among MSPAS MIDES and SESAN, as
applicable, to be used in connection with the implementation of the Project; and (ii) the
terms and conditions governing MIDES and SESAN as beneficiaries of Project activities.

Water Subproject Agreements

To facilitate the carrying out of Part 1(c)(i) of the Project, and prior to the implementation
of any Water Subproject under said Part of the Project that falls within the administrative
Jurisdiction of any given Participating Municipality, the Borrower, through MSPAS, shall
enter into an agreement with said Participating Municipality (the “Water Subproject
Agreement”), under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank and set forth in the
Operations Manual, which shall include, inter alia, the obligation of said Participating
Municipality to operate and maintain the Water Subproject in a manner acceptable to the
Bank.

The Borrower, through MSPAS, shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under
each Water Subproject Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, through MSPAS, shall not assign, amend, abrogate,
waive, terminate or fail to enforce any Water Subproject Agreement or any of its
provisions.
-8-

Conditional Cash Transfers

Throughout Project Implementation, the Borrower, through MIDES, shall provide
Conditional Cash Transfers under Part 2 of the Project in accordance with the updated CCT
Operations Manual acceptable to the Bank.

Project Operations Manual

The Borrower, through MSPAS, shall adopt and thereafter carry out the Project in
accordance with the provisions of a manual (the Operations Manual), acceptable to the
Bank, which shall include, inter alia: (a) a detailed description of Project activities and
institutional arrangements for the Project; (b) the Project administrative, accounting,
auditing, reporting, financial (including cash flow aspects in relation thereto), procurement
and disbursement procedures; (c) the monitoring indicators for the Project; (d) the
institutional and administrative mechanisms established to ensure inter-institutional
coordination; (e) the ESMF; and (f) the procedures to ensure the consultation and
participation of indigenous peoples throughout the implementation of the Project.

Except as the Bank may otherwise agree in writing, the Borrower, through MSPAS, shall
not abrogate, amend, suspend, waive or otherwise fail to enforce the Operations Manual or
any provision thereof.

In case of any conflict between the terms of the Operations Manual and those of this
Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.

Independent Evaluation

For purposes of carrying out Part 2 of the Project, the Borrower, through MSPAS, in
coordination with MIDES and SESAN, shall:

no later than 270 days after the Effective Date, select, hire and retain an Independent
Evaluation Entity with qualifications and experience, and under terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with Section III of this Schedule;

cause the Independent Evaluation Entity to: (a) carry out a periodical technical verification
of the level of achievement of the DLIs set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and (b)
(i) prepare Independent Evaluation Reports covering a period of one calendar quarter, of
such scope and detail as set forth in the Operations Manual; and (ii) furnish each
Independent Evaluation Report to the Borrower, no later than forty-five (45) days after the
end of each calendar quarter; and

no later than thirty (30) after the receipt of each Independent Evaluation Report, forward
to the Bank each said report.

Financial Institution Agreement
For purposes of carrying out Part 2 of the Project, the Borrower, through MIDES, shall

maintain an agreement with the Financial Institution (the Financial Institution Agreement)
on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, including, inter alia the Financial
0.

Institution’s obligations to provide, on behalf of the Borrower, the Conditional Cash
Transfers to Eligible Beneficiaries, in a manner acceptable to the Bank, and in accordance
with the regulations mentioned in Section IV. B. 1(b)(ii) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

Anti-Corruption

The Borrower, through MSPAS, shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance
with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.

Safeguards
The Borrower, through MSPAS, shall carry out the Project in accordance with the ESMF.

Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, through MSPAS, shall not assign,
amend, abrogate, terminate, fail to enforce or waive the ESMF or any of its provisions
thereof.

The Borrower, through MSPAS, shall ensure that the terms of reference of any consultancy
in respect to Part 1 of the Project shall be satisfactory to the Bank following its review
thereof and, to that end, such terms of reference shall duly incorporate the requirements of
the Bank’s Safeguard Policies then in force, as applied to the advice conveyed through
such technical assistance.

Section II. Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

A.

ls

Project Reports

The Borrower, through MSPAS, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and
prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
Conditions and on the basis of indicators set forth in the Operations Manual. Each Project
Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank
not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such report.

Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits

The Borrower, through MSPAS, shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial
management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.

The Borrower, through MSPAS, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-
five (45) days after the end of each calendar semester, interim unaudited financial reports
for the Project covering the pertinent calendar semester, in form and substance satisfactory
to the Bank.

The Borrower, through MSPAS, shall have the Financial Statements for Parts 1 and 3 of
the Project audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General
Conditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements for Part 1 and 3 of the Project shall
cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower, or any other period acceptable to the
Bank. The audited Financial Statements for Parts 1 and 3 of the Project for each such period
shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of such period.
-10-

The Borrower, through MSPAS, shall have the Results-based Eligible Expenditure
Program under Part 2 of the Project audited in accordance with the provisions of Section
5.09 of the General Conditions. Each audit of the Results-based Eligible Expenditure
Program under Part 2 of the Project shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the
Borrower, or any other period acceptable to the Bank. The audited Conditional Cash
Transfers under Part 2 of the Project for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank
not later than six months after the end of such period.

Section III. Procurement

All goods, works, non-consulting services and consulting services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in the Procurement Regulations and the provisions
of the Procurement Plan.

Section IV. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

A.

l.

General

The proceeds of the Loan may be withdrawn in accordance with the provisions of Article
II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower (including the Disbursement Guidelines as made
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.

The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures
in each Category.

        
  
       
   
 
  
 

     

Category Amount of the Loan | Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated to be financed

expressed in USD inclusive of Taxes
and Operating Costs under

85,000,000 100%
Parts 1 and 3 of the Project

(2) Results-based Eligible 14,750,000 100%
Expenditure Program under
Part 2 of the Project

(3) Front-end Fee 250,000 Amount payable pursuant to
Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions

    
     
 
    
   

(1) Goods, works, non-
consulting services,
consulting services, Training

 
 

  
 

 
   

         

TOTAL AMOUNT 100,000,000
Ot.

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made:

for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement; and

with respect to Category (2), unless:

(i)

(ii)

the Borrower has: (A) carried out a socio cultural assessment of the CCT
Program under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank; and (B) updated
CCT Operations Manual in a manner to include the recommendations of
the above-referenced socio cultural assessment, and with contents
acceptable to the Bank; and

(A) the Technical Committee of the Social Protection Trust Fund shall
have issued regulations (Reglamento) mandating the Social Protection
Trust Fund, including the Financial Institution, to comply with the
application of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines, on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank; and (B) the regulations mentioned in (A) herein
shall have become effective in a manner acceptable to the Bank.

The Closing Date is January 31, 2024.

B.
1.
(a)
(b)
2.
Section V.

l.

Other Undertakings

Without limitation to the provisions set forth in Section IV.B.1. of this Schedule, each
withdrawal under Category (2) shall be made only after the Borrower has furnished to the
Bank: (a) the Independent Evaluation Report acceptable to the Bank, confirming the
achievement of the respective DLI or DLIs set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and
in the Operations Manual; and (b) supporting documentation acceptable to the Bank
confirming that expenditures under the Results-based Eligible Expenditure Program in an
amount at least equal to the amount to be withdrawn under this Category in respect of each
DLI, have been made, and that said expenditures have not been presented before to the
Bank as Eligible Expenditures or as satisfactory evidence for withdrawals under this
Agreement or any other agreement providing for Bank financing.
-12-

SCHEDULE 3

Amortization Schedule

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage
of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date
(“Installment Share”). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a)
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment
Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary,
to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.

Principal Payment Date Installment Share
Expressed as a Percentage

On each March 15 and September 15
Beginning September 15, 2023
through September 15, 2049 1.85 %

On March 15, 2050 1.95 %

If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment
Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal
Payment Date shall be determined as follows:

  
 
 
    
  

    

 
  
 
 

  
    
 

 

 

(a) To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance as
of such date in accordance with paragraph | of this Schedule.

(b) Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original
Installment Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.

(a) Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any Principal
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding
on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall
be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
43.

(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on
or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such
billing system.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs | and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved Currency,
the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any Principal
Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to the
Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the
Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating
to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.

If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan
Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
-14-

SCHEDULE 4

Disbursement-Linked Indicators

    

   

       
  
  
    
   
 
   

Disbursement Disbursement Linked Indicator Amount of the

  
 
   
    

  

  

Linked Loan
Indicator Allocated
Description (expressed in

Dollars

     

   
  
 
  
  
 

DLI 1. Increased
coverage of
prenatal care
with at least four
visits in the
Intervention
Areas

DLI 1.1: The percentage of pregnant women in the
Intervention Areas receiving at least four prenatal
care visits has increased to 30%;

DLI 1.1: 2,000,000

  

  
   
   

  
  

 
   
    
     

DLI 1.2: 87,500 for
every increase of 1%
up to a maximum of
2,000,000

DLI 1.2: the percentage of pregnant women in the
Intervention Areas receiving at least four prenatal
care visits has increased to 50%; and

    
  

  
   
   
   
  
 

 

all cumulative from a baseline of 18.7%.

   
  

   
 
  
  
    
    
 

   
  
  
  
 

DLI 2. RUUN
receives
individual level
data on health
system usage

DLI 2.1: The Borrower, through MIDES, has
updated SIGSA to: (a) maintain individual records
with the information required to confirm if co-
responsibilities have been fulfilled; and (b) make the
inter-operability of the RUUN and SIGSA
functional.

DLI 2.1: 1,500,0000

  
 
   
   
   
   
   
 
   

DLI 2.2: 1,500,0000

 

DLI 2.2: Individual records of usage of each
component of the health care package are

systematically being shared with MIDES for the
verification of co-responsibilities under the CCT
Program.

    

    
 
     
  
  
  
  

  
   
   
 

DLI 3. Increased
percentage of
six month old
children who are
Exclusively

DLI 3.1: The percentage of 6 month old children
who are Exclusively Breastfed has increased to
50%;

DLI 3.1: 2,000,000

      
  
   
  
   
  

DLI 3.2: 134,000 for
every increase of

   

DLI 3.2: the percentage of 6 month old children

     
 

    
 
  

Breastfed in the | who are Exclusively Breastfed has increased to 1% up toa
Intervention 65%; and maximum of
Areas 2,000,000

     
   
 

all cumulative from a baseline of 43%.

   
  

    
 
  
  
  

  
   
    
 
  

DLI 4. Increased
percentage of
children under
two years old
who are
beneficiaries of
the CCT

DLI 4.1: The CCT Operations Manual has been
updated and adopted by MIDES in a manner and
with contents acceptable to the Bank, including an
update of the components of the basic health care
package as co-responsibilities.

DLI 4.1: 2,000,000

    
  
   
  
  
  
 
   
  
  
 

Program
receiving
transfers based
on compliance
with the full
verification
cycle of health
co-
responsibilities
in the
Intervention
Areas

   
   
  
  
  
  
  
  

  

ae

DLI 4.2: The percentage of children under two years
old whose household is: (a) located in the
Intervention Areas; (b) enrolled in the CCT
Program; (c) fulfilling the full verification cycle of
health co-responsibilities; and (d) receiving
Conditional Cash Transfers; all as set forth in the
CCT Operations Manual, has increased to 70%,
cumulative from a baseline of 0.

   
 
  
  
   
  
 
   

  

DLI 4.2: 1,750,000

 
   
   
 
-16-

APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

i

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud
and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”, dated
October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.

“Bank’s Safeguard Policies” means the Bank's operational safeguard policies and
procedures, set forth in the Bank's Operational Manual under OP/BPs 4.01, 4.04, 4.09,
4.10, 4.11, 4.12, 4.36, 4.37, 7.50 and 7.60, or such policies and procedures then in force.

“BANRURAL” means Banco de Desarrollo Rural, the Borrower’s Rural Development
Bank created pursuant to the Legislative Decree No. 99-70, dated December 3, 1970, duly
published in the Borrower’s official gazette on December 22, 1970, and as amended to the
date of this Agreement.

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.

“CCT Operations Manual” means the Manual Operativo del Program Social Mi Bono
Seguro, the Borrower’s manual for the CCT Program approved pursuant to the Borrower’s
Ministerial Decree (Acuerdo Ministerial) No. DS-86-2015 dated August 31, 2015, as may
be amended from time to time in a manner and with contents acceptable to the Bank.

“CCT Program” means Programa Social Mi Bono Seguro, the Borrower's conditional cash
transfer program established pursuant to the Borrower’s Ministerial Decree (Acuerdo
Ministerial) No. DS-46-2015, as amended to the date of this Agreement, or its successor
acceptable to the Bank.

“COCODES” means Consejos Comunitarios de Desarrollo, the Community Development
Councils, created within the Borrower’s territory pursuant to the Legislative Decree No.
11-2002, dated March 12, 2002, duly published in the Borrower’s official gazette on April
15, 2002, and as amended to the date of this Agreement.

“COMUDES” means Consejos Municipales de Desarrollo, the Municipal Development
Councils, created within the Borrower’s territory pursuant to the Legislative Decree No.
11-2002, dated March 12, 2002, duly published in the Borrower’s official gazette on April
15, 2002, and as amended to the date of this Agreement.

“CONASAN” means Consejo Nacional de Seguridad Alimentaria y Nutricion, the
Borrower’s National Council for Food Security and Nutrition, created pursuant to the
Borrower’s Legislative Decree No 32-2005, dated April 6, 2005, duly published in the
Borrower’s official gazette on May 2, 2005.

“Conditional Cash Transfer” means a grant made to an Eligible Beneficiary who complies
with the health co-responsibilities under the CCT Program, as set forth in the CCT
Operations Manual, collectively referred to as “Conditional Cash Transfers”.
LE.

b2.

I

16.

Lr

18.

20.

£1

“1%

“Department” means Departamento, a political subdivision of the Borrower created
pursuant to the Borrower’s Constitution dated May 31, 1985, as amended to the date of this
Agreement, collectively referred to as “Departments”.

“Disbursement Guidelines” means the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for
Projects” dated February 2017, as revised from time to time by the Bank.

“DLI” means each indicator related to Category (2) as set forth in the table in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.

“Eligible Beneficiary” means any individual living in the Intervention Areas who meets
the eligibility criteria set forth in the CCT Operations Manual to benefit from a Conditional
Cash Transfer.

“ESMF” means Environmental and Social Management Framework, the Borrower’s
framework acceptable to the Bank, dated November 2016 and revised on April 2019,
disclosed in country on April 25, 2019_and by the Bank on April 26, 2019, which contains
the environmental protection measures in respect of the Project, including: (a) protection of
natural habitats and pest management; (b) guidelines for the identification of existing
environmental conditions and potential direct and indirect environmental impacts resulting
from the carrying out of the Project; (c) guidelines for the carrying out of environmental
assessments and the preparation and implementation of environmental management plans,
when applicable; (d) provisions for the treatment of physical cultural resources discovered
during project implementation (chance finds); (e) the recommendation of mitigation
measures for each negative impact identified; and (f) measures for enhancing each
identified positive impact.

“Exclusively Breastfed” means that the infant receives only breast milk. No other liquids
or solids are given, not even water, with the exception of oral rehydration solution, or
drops/syrups of vitamins, minerals, or medicines.

“Financial Institution” means BANRURAL.

“Financial Institution Agreement” means the agreement entered into between the
Borrower, through MIDES, and the Financial Institution, dated April 20, 2009, which
created the Social Protection Trust Fund, as said agreement has been amended to the date
of this agreement, and as the same may be further amended from time to time in a manner
and with contents acceptable to the Bank.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for Loans”, dated March 12, 2012, with the modifications set forth in
Section II of this Appendix.

“Independent Evaluation Entity” means the independent verification entity referred to in
Section I.F.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Independent Evaluation Report” means each of the quarterly reports referred to in Section
I.F.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
thes

23

24.

bad

26.

ats

28.

29.

30.

31.

-18-

“Inter Institutional Arrangement” means either one of the agreements referred to in Section
1.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, collectively referred to as “Inter Institutional
Arrangements”.

“Intervention Areas” means the following Borrower’s Departments Alta Verapaz,
Chiquimula, Huehuetengo, Quiche, San Marcos, Solola, Totonicapdn, or any other
Department acceptable to the Bank.

“MIDES” means Ministerio de Desarrollo Social, the Borrower’s Ministry of Social
Development, or its successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.

“MSPAS” means Ministerio de Salud Publica y Asistencia Social, the Borrower’s Ministry
of Public Health and Social Assistance, which has been designated to assist the Borrower
in the implementation of the Project pursuant to the Decree 1-2019, published in the
Borrower’s Official Gazette on March 11, 2019, or its successor thereto acceptable to the
Bank.

“National Strategy to Prevent Chronic Malnutrition 2016-2020” means the Borrower’s
strategy to prevent chronic malnutrition, approved and launched pursuant to CONASAN’s
Minute No. 02-2016, dated March 3, 2016, or any subsequent national instrument to
prevent chronic malnutrition acceptable to the Bank.

“Operating Costs” means reasonable expenditures (none of which would have been
incurred by the Borrower absent the Project), for the implementation, coordination and
supervision of the Project, including, inter alia, travel costs (i.e. accommodation,
transportation, travel insurance, and per diem); operation and maintenance of office
equipment; rental of offices; office supplies; communication and advertising costs; bank
charges; utilities costs; vehicle operation, insurance and maintenance costs; printing and
publications (electronic and/or paper); translation services; and such other expenditures as
may be agreed upon by the Bank for the purposes mentioned herein.

“Operations Manual” means the Borrower’s manual referred to in Section I.E.1 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time in a manner
and with contents acceptable to the Bank.

“Participating Municipality” means Municipio, any municipality within the Intervention
Areas, and created pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 12-2002, dated April 2, 2002 and
duly published in the Borrower’s official gazette on May 13, 2002, collectively referred to
as “Participating Municipalities”.

“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for Category 1 of the Project,
dated February 16, 2017 and updated on May 3, 2019 and provided for under Section IV
of the Procurement Regulations, as the same may be updated from time to time in
agreement with the Bank.

“Procurement Regulations” means the “World Bank Procurement Regulations for
Borrowers under Investment Project Financing”, dated July 2016, revised November 2017
and August 2018.
Sa

33,

34.

3°.

36.

a;

38.

39.

40.

10:

“Reimburse” means to use a Bank’s disbursement method for financing with the proceeds
of the Loan Eligible Expenditures under Part 2 of the Project pursuant to this Agreement,
which have been pre-financed by the Borrower from its own resources.

“Reimbursement” means a disbursement method used by the Bank for financing with the
proceeds of the Loan Eligible Expenditures under Part 2 of the Project pursuant to this
Agreement, which have been pre-financed by the Borrower from its own resources.

“Results-based Eligible Expenditure Program” means a portion of the Borrower’s
budgetary allocation for financing Conditional Cash Transfers in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“RUUN” means Registro Unico de Usuarios Nacional, the Borrower’s National Unique
Registry of Beneficiaries of MIDES social protection programs, including the CCT
Program, or its successor acceptable to the Bank.

“SESAN” means Secretaria de Seguridad Alimentaria y Nutricional, the Borrower’s
Secretariat for Food Security and Nutrition, or any successor acceptable to the Bank.

“SIGSA” means Sistema de Informacion Gerencial de Salud, the Borrower’s Health
Information Management System, or its successor acceptable to the Bank.

“Training” means expenditures (other than those for consulting’ services) incurred by the
Borrower to finance the reasonable travel costs (i.e. accommodation, transportation, travel
insurance and per diem, inter alia) of trainees and trainers (if applicable), training
registration fees, catering, rental of training facilities and equipment, logistics and printing
services, as well as training materials, all for the purposes of, and directly related to, the
training activities described in the Project.

“Water Subproject” means any water investment referred to in Part 1(c)(i) of the Project,
collectively referred to as “Water Subprojects”.

“Water Subproject Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in Section I.C.(i)
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions

The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:

In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section numbers
are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.

Section 3.01. (Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
“Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge

(a) The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at the rate
specified in the Loan Agreement (the “Front-end Fee”).
6.

(b) The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the Unwithdrawn Loan
Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the “Commitment Charge”). The
Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the Loan
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from
the Loan Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually
in arrears on each Payment Date.”

In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and paragraphs
are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in paragraph 2 above.

The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following definition
of “Commitment Charge”, and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs accordingly:

“19. “Commitment Charge” means the commitment charge specified in the Loan
Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b).”

In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the definition
of “Front-end Fee” is modified by replacing the reference to Section 3.01 with Section 3.01

(a).

In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the definition
of the term “Loan Payment” is modified to read as follows:

“68. “Loan Payment” means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the Bank
pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including (but not limited
to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-end Fee, the
Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any prepayment
premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of a Conversion, the
Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable upon the establishment of
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding Amount payable by the
Borrower.”

In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the definition
of “Payment Date” is modified by deleting the word “is” and inserting the words “and
Commitment Charge are” after the word “interest”.
