Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

LOAN NUMBER IBRD 8933-AL

Loan Agreement

(Western Balkans Trade and Transport Facilitation Project Using the Multiphase
Programmatic Approach)
between
REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:

WHEREAS:

(A) The governments of the Borrower, Republic of North Macedonia and Republic of
Serbia (collectively, the “Participating Beneficiaries”) have signed a series of agreements and
memoranda of understanding, with the broad objective of creating the conditions for regional trade
and transport facilitation;

(B) under the first phase of a Multiphase Programmatic Approach (MPA), the Bank
intends to support the regional Western Balkans Trade and Transport Facilitation Project in Albania
(“Project”), as described in Schedule | hereto;

(C) by separate financing agreements to be entered into between Republic of North
Macedonia and Republic of Serbia, respectively, with the Bank (“North Macedonia Financing
Agreement”, and “Serbia Financing Agreement”, as further defined in the Appendix to this
Agreement), the Bank will extend to them financing to cover the cost of activities related to their
respective parts of the Project; and

(D) under the second phase of the MPA, the Bank intends to support regional trade and
facilitation activities under the program with other participating beneficiaries in the Western
Balkans.

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01. The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to and form
part of this Agreement.

1.02. Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.

ARTICLE II — LOAN
2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of seventeen million and six hundred
thousand Euro (€17,600,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through
a Currency Conversion (“Loan”), to assist in financing Parts 1, 2 and 4 of the Project

described in Schedule | to this Agreement.

2.02. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section III of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

2.03. The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.

2.04. The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05.

2.06.

2.07.

chim

5.02.

6.02.

J

The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Fixed Spread or such rate as may apply
following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General Conditions.

The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.

ARTICLE II — PROJECT
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project and the MPA
Program. To this end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through the MoFE in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that as a result of
events which have occurred after the date of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary
situation has arisen which makes it improbable that the MPA can be carried out.
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:

(a) the Borrower has established a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) under terms,
conditions, composition, functions, and resources satisfactory to the Bank; and

(b) the Borrower has adopted a Project Operations Manual (POM) under terms
satisfactory to the Bank.

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and twenty (120) days after the
Signature Date.

ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
The Borrower’s Representative is the Borrower’s Minister of Finance and Economy.
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Borrower’s address is:
Minister of Finance and Economy

“Deshmoret e Kombit” Boulevard
Nr. 3, 1001, Tirana; and
-3-
(b) the Borrower’s Electronic Address is:
Facsimile: E-mail:
+355 4 222 8405 sekretariamin@financa.gov.al
6.03. For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Bank’s address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America; and
(b) the Bank’s Electronic Address is:

Facsimile: E-mail:

1-202-477-6391 msalim1@worldbank.org

AGREED as of the Signature Date.

REPUBLIC

  
   

By
Authorized Representative

Name: | QO

Title: -ywvisr2 a oe eyvance
ECONOMY

Date: LS .6 » 22049

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By

    

Authorized Representative
Name: TARY AN SALIM
rite; COUNTRY (TAN ACER

Date: iy “Uy eC i> 20/9
-4-
SCHEDULE 1

Project Description

The objective of the Project is to reduce trade costs and increase transport efficiency in
Albania. The Project constitutes the first phase of the MPA Program, and consists of the following
parts:

Part 1: Facilitating movement of goods across the Western Balkans

l. Provision of support to design, develop and implement a National Single Window (NSW)
solution and the associated reform and modernization of customs and other border management
agency requirement to lower trade transaction costs, improve inter agency coordination and reduce
the time taken to clear goods.

Ds Provision of support to develop and implement the National Transit Application and
Economic Operator Registration and Identification (EORI) fully compatible with EU New
Computerized Transit System (NCTS).

Bi Provision of support to improve physical capacity and working conditions of the crossing
of Qafe Thana by, facilitating the preparation of border crossing agreements and the procedures at
the crossing, and financing equipment aiming at facilitating the flow of goods across borders, but
not limited to: (a) carrying out refurbishments to existing facilities (including but not limited to
buildings, information system exchange between border facilities, customs facilities, exit and entry
lanes and parking facilities for trucks); (b) installation of an extra weight scale for the crossing
point; (c) establishing a single operational one-stop shop when technically possible; and (d) the
updating of the electronic and system infrastructure for freight clearance.

Part 2: Enhancing transport efficiency and predictability

hs Provision of support to introduce Intelligent Transport Systems (ITS) on the maritime
sector through the deployment of a Vessel Traffic Management Information System (VTMIS) to
monitor vessel traffic in combination with the Vessel Traffic Service (VTS), including but not
limited to: (a) the preparation of a feasibility study; and (b) support to the implementation of the
VTMIS along the whole sea coastal line in Albania.

Part 3: Enhancing Market Access for Trade and Investments

l. Provision of support through technical assistance for the implementation of regulatory and
institutional reforms to align with the country specific commitments under: (a) Central European
Free Trade Agreement (CEFTA) Additional Protocol 6; and (b) the Multi-annual Action Plan for a
Regional Economic Area in the Western Balkans (MAP).

Part 4: Project implementation support

l. Provision of support to the PIU and General Directorate for Financing and Contracting
(GDFC) including procurement, financial management, monitoring and evaluation, audits,
-5-

safeguards and technical oversight, and policy coordination (but excluding salaries of Borrower’s
civil servants).

z Provisions of support to carry out public and multi-stakeholder consultations and surveys
(including women traders); grievance redress mechanism; corridor performance tool; and user
satisfaction surveys.
-6-
SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Section I. Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional Arrangements.
l. Without limitation to the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, and except as

the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall, through MoFE, maintain at all times during
the implementation of the Project:

(a) a PIU within MoFE with composition, resources, terms of reference and functions
acceptable to the Bank. The PIU shall be responsible for Project management and
coordination (including with focal points of the authorities engaged in the Project),
as well as the monitoring and evaluation and safeguards compliance under the
Project.

(b) the GDFC under MoFE, with composition, resources, terms of reference and
functions acceptable to the Bank. The GDFC shall be responsible for the
procurement and financial management and disbursement of the Project.

Ds The Borrower shall by not later than 2 months following the Effectiveness Date identify
the focal points in the authorities engaged in the implementation of the Project in line with the
POM.

B. Project Operations Manual.

l. The Borrower, through MoFE, shall implement the Project in accordance with a POM, in
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, that sets out the operational and administrative
procedures and requirements for Project implementation.

es The POM may not be assigned, amended, abrogated or waived, or permitted to be assigned,
amended, abrogated or waived, or any provision thereof, in a manner which, in the opinion of the
Bank, may materially and adversely affect the implementation of the Project. The POM may only
be amended in consultation with, and after approval of, the Bank. In case of any conflict between
the terms of the POM and those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.

C. Safeguards.

l. The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out with due regard to appropriate
health, safety, social, and environmental standards and practices, and in accordance with the
Safeguards Instruments.

Zs The Borrower shall ensure that the obligation to comply with the relevant Safeguard
Instruments is incorporated: (a) in the contracts between the Borrower and the relevant contractors
and any entity (including any engineer) supervising the Project’s civil works; and (b) in the
contracts between the relevant contractors and the contractors’ subcontractors.
i.

3. The Borrower shall ensure that all the bidding documents and contracts include the
obligation of the relevant contractors and subcontractors to adopt and enforce codes of conduct that
should be provided to and signed by all workers; as applicable to such civil works commissioned
or carried out pursuant to said contracts.

4. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure, and cause to ensure,
that none of the provisions of the Safeguard Instruments is abrogated, amended, repealed,
suspended or waived. In case of any inconsistencies between the provisions of any of the Safeguard
Instruments and the provisions of this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.

2 The Borrower shall maintain, throughout Project implementation, and publicize the
availability of a grievance redress mechanism, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, to
hear and determine fairly and in good faith all complaints raised in relation to the Project and take
all measures necessary to implement the determinations made by such mechanism in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank.

Section II. Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

l. (a) The Borrower, through MoFE, shall furnish to the Bank each Project Report not
later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar semester, covering the calendar
semester.

(b) The Borrower, through MoFE, shall prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory
to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank, on or about September 30, 2022, a report integrating
the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a)
of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during
the period following such date; and

(c) review with the Bank, by November 30, 2022, or such later date as the Bank shall
request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of
the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report
and the Bank’s views on the matter.

a Without limitation upon its other reporting obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower
through MoFE, shall:

(a) take all measures necessary on its part to regularly collect, compile, and submit to
the Bank, as part of the Project Reports, and promptly in a separate report whenever the
Bank may require, information on the status of compliance with the Safeguards
Instruments. Such information shall include: (i) measures taken in furtherance of the
Safeguards Instruments; (ii) conditions, if any, which interfere or threaten to interfere with
the smooth implementation of the Safeguards Instruments; and (iii) remedial measures
taken or required to be taken to address such conditions;
:

(b) promptly furnish to the Bank a copy of each progress report prepared and
submitted by any entity (including any engineer) supervising the Project’s civil works, the
Project’s contractors and/or subcontractors; and

(c) promptly upon receipt, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank any notification
received from any entity (including any engineer) supervising the Project’s civil works, the
Project’s contractors and/or subcontractors regarding any incident that have might occurred
during Project implementation.

Section HI. | Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

A. General.
Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and in
accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the Borrower may
withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to: (a) finance Eligible Expenditures; and (b) pay: (i)
the Front-end Fee; and (ii) each Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar premium; in the

amount allocated and, if applicable, up to the percentage set forth against each Category of
the following table:

Category Amount of the Loan Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated to be financed
expressed in Euro inclusive of Taxes

(1) Goods, works, non- 17,556,000 100%
consulting services,
44,000 Amount payable pursuant to
Section 2.03 of _ this
a Agreement in accordance with
Section 2.07 (b) of the General
Conditions

      
    
    
    
   
  
    
  

     
  
       

  

 

       
   
   
   

consulting services, Operating
Amount due pursuant to

Costs and Training for Parts 1,
2 and 4 of the Project

Section 4.05 (c) of the General
Conditions

(2) Front-end Fee

(3) Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar premium

TOTAL AMOUNT 17,600,000

B. Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.

Ls Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A above, no withdrawal shall be made for payments
made prior to the Signature Date.

ra The Closing Date is December 15, 2025.
-9-

SCHEDULE 3

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage of the
total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date (“Installment Share”).

Level Principal Repayments

On each May 15 and November 15
Beginning May 15, 2026
through May 15, 2041

On November 15, 2041

 
     
  
 

 
   

 

  
  

 
    
 

3.13%

 
+10).

APPENDIX

Definitions

l.

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and Corruption
in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006
and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section III.A of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.

“Co-financier” means the European Union.

“Co-financing” means, for purposes of paragraph 16 of the Appendix to the General
Conditions to be provided by the Co-financier to assist in financing Part 3 of the Project.

“Co-financing Agreement” means the agreement between the implementing entities and
the Co-financier providing for the Co-financing.

“Environmental and Social Management Framework” or “ESMF” means the plan
prepared and adopted by the Borrower dated November 9, 2018, disclosed in-country, and
the Bank’s website on November 15, 2018, setting out the modalities to be followed in
assessing the potential adverse environmental and social impacts of Project activities
including impacts, and risks of gender-based violence and sexual exploitation and abuse
and the measures to be taken to offset, reduce or mitigate such adverse impacts, including
measures that endeavor to prevent and respond to gender-based violence and sexual
exploitation and abuse; as well as for the preparation of environmental and social
management plans, as such framework may be amended by the Borrower from time to
time, with the prior written agreement of the Bank.

“Environmental and Social Management Plans” or “ESMPs” means the plan to be prepared
by the Borrower as required setting out details of the specific actions and measures
including measures that endeavor to prevent and respond to gender-based violence and
sexual exploitation and abuse, as well as policies designed to facilitate the achievement of
the objectives of the ESMF under the Project, along with the procedural and institutional
measures needed to implement such actions, measures and policies, including any
schedules to such plans, and as such plan may be amended by the Borrower from time to
time, with the prior written approval of the Bank.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project Financing”, dated July 14,
2017.

“General Directorate of Financing and Contracting” or “GDFC” means the Borrower’s
Directorate referred to in Section I.A (b) of the Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“MoFE” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance and Economy, or its successor thereof.
ge

Le

13.

14.

16.

18.

19.

-|1-

“MPA Program” means the multiphase programmatic approach program, whose objective
is to reduce the trade costs and increase transport efficiency in participating beneficiaries
in Western Balkans.

“North Macedonia Financing Agreement” means the agreement between Republic of
North Macedonia and the Bank for the MPA, as such agreement may be amended from
time to time. “North Macedonia Financing Agreement” includes all appendices, schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Financing Agreement.

“Operating Costs” means expenditures incurred by the Borrower on account of the Project
implementation for office supplies, utilities, bank charges, communication tools,
advertisement fees, translation and interpretation services, car rental and fuel costs, office
rental and maintenance, moving expenses, equipment insurance, maintenance and repair,
printing and publications, travel per diem allowances and accommodation costs for PIU
staff, and salaries for PIU staff, including social charges, but excluding salaries for the
Borrower's civil servants.

“PIU” means the Borrower's Project Implementation Unit, maintained by the Borrower in
accordance with Section I.A(a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Procurement Regulations” means, for purposes of paragraph 85 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the “World Bank Procurement Regulations for IPF Borrowers”, dated
July 2016, revised November 2017.

“Project Operational Manual” or “POM” means the Project Operational Manual prepared
by the Borrower in accordance with Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and
satisfactory to the Bank, setting forth the operational and administrative responsibilities,
procedures and rules for the implementation of the Project, including the Environmental
and Social Management Framework, the Performance Indicators and the financial
management arrangements for the Project, as the same may be amended and supplemented
from time to time with the Bank's prior written approval.

“Training” means Project related study tours, training courses, seminars, workshops and
other training activities, including costs of training materials, space and equipment rental,
travel, accommodation and per diem costs of trainees and trainers, trainers' fees, and other
training related miscellaneous costs.

“Resettlement Action Plan” or “RAP” means the plan to be prepared by the Borrower, as

required, pursuant to the RPF (as defined hereinafter), satisfactory to the Bank, and to be
disclosed on the Bank’s website, which includes the principles, guidelines, organizational
arrangements and budget to implement the resettlement related activities under the Project,
as said resettlement action plan may be revised from time to time with the prior written
agreement of the Bank; and “RAPs” means collectively all such RAP.

“Resettlement Policy Framework” or “RPF” means the framework prepared and adopted
by the Borrower on November 9, 2018, satisfactory to the Bank, and disclosed in the
country on November 9, 2018 and on the Bank’s website on November 15, 2018, which
sets out the resettlement principles, organizational arrangements (including consultation
and budget), and design criteria to be applied to resettlement related Project activities to be
20.

Zi.

es

Zi

-12-

prepared during Project implementation, as such framework may be amended from time to
time with the prior written agreement of the Bank.

“Safeguard Instruments” means collectively, the ESMF, ESMP, RPF and RAP, and
“Safeguard Instrument” means any of such Safeguards Instruments.

“Safeguard Policies” means, the Operational Policies (OPs) and Bank Procedures (BPs) of
the Bank, namely OP/BP 4.01 (Environmental Assessment) and, OP/BP 4.12 (Involuntary
Resettlement); they can be found at https://policies.worldbank.org.

“Serbia Financing Agreement” means the agreement between Republic of Serbia and the
Bank for the MPA, as such agreement may be amended from time to time. “Serbia
Financing Agreement” includes all appendices, schedules and agreements supplemental to
the Financing Agreement.

“Signature Date” means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the Bank
signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to “the date of the Loan
Agreement” in the General Conditions.
