Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

 

 

CTF LOAN NUMBER TF0B0782

Clean Technology Fund
Loan Agreement

(Energy Efficiency in Public Buildings Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION

AND DEVELOPMENT

acting as an implementing entity of the Clean Technology Fund

Dated December {2 ,2019

 

 
CTF LOAN NUMBER TFO0B0782

CLEAN TECHNOLOGY FUND LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT dated December (2 . 2019, entered into

between REPUBLIC OF TURKEY (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“World Bank”), acting not in its
individual capacity but solely in its capacity as an implementing entity of the Clean
Technology Fund (“CTF”).

WHEREAS the Republic of Turkey and the World Bank intend to enter into a loan
agreement (“IBRD Loan Agreement”) for the purpose of providing a loan in an amount of
one hundred thirty-five million nine hundred thousand Euros (EUR 135,900,000) to the
Republic of Turkey to assist in financing Part 1 (a) (i) and Part 1 (b) of the Project, on the
terms and conditions set forth in the IBRD Loan Agreement.

WHEREAS the Republic of Turkey and the World Bank, acting as an
implementing entity of the Clean Technology Fund (“CTF”), intend to enter into a grant
agreement (“CTF Grant Agreement”) for the purpose of providing a grant in an amount of
three million eight hundred thousand Dollars (USD 3,800,000) to the Republic of Turkey
to assist in financing Part 2 of the Project, on the terms and conditions set forth in the CTF
Grant Agreement.

The Borrower and the World Bank hereby agree as follows:

Article I
Standard Conditions; Definitions

1.01. |The Standard Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.

1.02. Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the Standard Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.

Article II
Loan

2.01. The World Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set
forth or referred to in this Agreement, the amount of forty-six million two hundred
thousand United States Dollars (USD 46,200,000) (“Loan”), to assist in financing
the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”).

2.02. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03.

2.04.

2.05.

2.06.

2.07.

2.08.

3.01.

3.02.

The Loan is funded out of the resources made available to the World Bank as an
implementing entity of the CTF. In accordance with Section 3.02 of the Standard
Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement), the World Bank’s
payment obligations in connection with this Agreement are limited to the amount of
funds made available to it from the CTF trust fund, and the Borrower’s right to
withdraw the Loan proceeds is subject to the availability of such funds.

The Management Fee payable by the Borrower, pursuant to Section 4.01(a) of the
Standard Conditions, shall be equal to forty-five one hundredth of one percent
(0.45%) of the Loan. The Borrower shall pay the Management Fee not later than
sixty (60) days after the Effective Date.

The Service Charge payable by the Borrower on the Withdrawn Loan Balance
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%).

The Payment Dates are January 15 and July 15 in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the repayment
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

The Payment Currency is USD.

Article III
The Project

The Borrower, through its Ministry of Environment and Urbanization (““MoEU”)
and Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources (“MoENR”), declares its
commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the Borrower, through
MoEU and MoENR, shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions
of Article II of the Standard Conditions.

Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the World Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower,
through MoEU and MoENR, shall ensure that the Project is carried out in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
4.01.

4.02.

Article IV
Effectiveness; Termination

The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

the IBRD Loan Agreement has been executed and delivered and all
conditions precedent to the effectiveness of, or to the right of the Borrower
to make withdrawals under, said IBRD Loan Agreement (other than the
effectiveness of this Agreement) have been fulfilled;

the CTF Grant Agreement has been executed and delivered and all
conditions precedent to the effectiveness of, or to the right of the Borrower
to make withdrawals under, said CTF Grant Agreement (other than the
effectiveness of this Agreement) have been fulfilled;

the Borrower, through MoEU and MoENR, has established and appointed
representatives to the Working Group to the satisfaction of the World
Bank; and the Borrower, through MoEU, has adopted a Project Operations
Manual acceptable to the World Bank; and

the Borrower, through MoEU, has established and operationalized the
feedback and grievance redress mechanism referred to in Section I.E.7 of
Schedule 2 of this Agreement with functions and in a manner acceptable
to the World Bank.

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and twenty (120) days after
the date of this Agreement.
5.01.

5.02.

Article V
Borrower’s Representative; Addresses

The Borrower’s Representative referred to in Section 10.02 of the Standard
Conditions is its Minister of Treasury and Finance.

The Borrower’s Address referred to in Section 10.01 of the Standard Conditions
iS:

T.C. Hazine ve Maliye Bakanligi
Indnii Bulvari No. 36

Emek — Ankara

Republic of Turkey

Facsimile:

(90) (312) 204-7366
(90) (312) 204-7367

The World Bank’s Address referred to in Section 10.01 of the Standard Conditions
iS:

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America

Cable: Telex: Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 248423 (MCI) or 1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 64145 (MCI)
€oPable S C
AGREED at hin e alo , rhs ial t ex as of the day and year first above

written.

REPUBLIC OF TURKEY

By

Autho

Name:

 

Title:

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as an implementing entity of the

Clean Technology Fund

Authorized Representative

Name: Auguste Tano Kouame
Country Director for tu

Title: The World Bank
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description

The objectives of the Project are to reduce energy use in central government
buildings and inform the development of sustainable financing mechanisms to support a
scaled-up, national program for energy efficiency in public buildings.

The Project consists of the following parts:

Part 1. Energy Efficiency Investments in Central Government Buildings.

(a)

(b)

(Cc)

Conventional energy efficiency investments in central government
buildings.

Carrying out of Subprojects to improve energy efficiency performance in
selected central government buildings, including central government
affiliated buildings, through the provision of studies and renovation works,
for:

(i) simpler renovation investments that reduce energy use in
buildings by at least twenty (20) percent with a simple payback
period of less than twelve (12) years; and

(ii) deeper renovation investments that reduce energy use in buildings
by at least thirty (30) percent with simple payback periods
between twelve (12) and twenty (20) years.

Energy service company investments.

Carrying out of Subprojects to improve energy efficiency performance in
selected central government buildings, including central government
affiliated buildings, that have sufficient baseline energy consumption data
and service quality (i.e., proper heating and cooling systems), through the
use of Energy Performance Contracts with energy service companies
(“ESCOs”).

Near-Zero Energy Buildings pilot.

Carrying out of pilot, Near-Zero Energy Building (““NZEB”) Subprojects
in selected central government buildings, including central government
affiliated buildings, that have high demonstration value, determined based
on the respective buildings’ annual number of users and/or visitors, and
located in different climatic zones in the Borrower’s territory, to showcase
the concept of NZEB integrated design and renovation techniques and
newer technologies.
Part 2. Technical Assistance and Implementation Support.

(a)

(b)

Technical assistance to the Ministry of Environment and Urbanization.

(i)

(ii)

(iii)

(iv)

Provision of technical assistance to MoEU in areas including,
inter alia development of early Subprojects including
communication and outreach to solicit Subproject applications,
Energy Audits, technical design reviews, assessment of ESCO
proposals and energy savings monitoring; and provision of
monitoring software.

Provision of support to MoEU for the evaluation of early
Subprojects and NZEB pilots, including developing case studies
to document investment costs, measures implemented, actual
energy savings, and lessons;

Provision of a comprehensive training program in building
renovations for, inter alia, design and construction firms, energy
managers, MoEU staff and provisional branch offices, women in
the energy efficiency field, building administrators in operations
and maintenance.

Provision of support for program management and Project
implementation to the MoEU Project Implementing Unit,
including in financial management, procurement, environmental
and social safeguards, and other technical areas.

Technical assistance to Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources.

Provision of technical assistance to MoENR to:

(i)

(ii)

(iii)

(iv)

build capacity for ESCO market development through the training
of ESCOs, provision of regulatory support, and development of
procedures, templates and case studies;

(A) build capacity of MoENR staff on energy efficiency
measurement and verification, and energy audits, and (B) revise
and update existing training materials;

monitor the energy efficiency of Subproject renovations and make
enhancements to MoENR’s building consumption database;

assess the regulatory adjustments needed to support energy
efficiency in public buildings and ESCOs, including budgeting
rules to allow for budget savings retention, financing of public
building renovations, public procurement rules to support ESCOs

7
(v)

(vi)

(vii)

in the public sector, and public procurement rules in energy
efficient equipment and materials;

develop appropriate financing agreement templates for energy
services for the public sector;

prepare a market assessment and develop a project pipeline in
energy efficiency for municipalities to be presented to a suitable
financial institution or institutions acceptable to the Bank in
support of a national program for energy efficiency; and

develop a plan for a national program for energy efficiency in the
public sector (including, inter alia, in respect to central and
municipal buildings, public lighting, and water) that would rely
on sustainable financing mechanisms to serve the broader public
sector in the Borrower’s territory.
SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Section I. Institutional and Other Arrangements

A. Institutional Arrangements.
1. The Borrower, through MoEU, shall:
(a) be responsible for the overall implementation, management, coordination

and oversight of the Project, including the Project’s administrative,
procurement, environmental and social safeguards, disbursement,
financial management and monitoring and evaluation responsibilities, as
specified in the Project Operations Manual (“POM”); and

(b) maintain, throughout Project implementation, a MoEU Project
Implementing Unit (““MoEU-PIU”), with functions and responsibilities
acceptable to the Bank, for the implementation and management of Part 1
and Part 2(a) of the Project, including, inter alia: (i) promoting awareness
of the Project; (ii) collaborating with relevant ministries and central
government institutions to identify and select buildings to be renovated;
(iii) establishing appropriate screening processes to ensure adherence of
the Subproject eligibility criteria; (iv) coordinating with Subproject
beneficiaries on the implementation of the renovation works; (v) carrying
out the procurement process for energy audits, detailed designs and
technical specifications, renovation works, construction supervision,
energy savings verification and energy performance certificates;
(vi) supervising, reviewing and approving all Energy Audits, designs and
renovations; and (vii) carrying out the financial management,
environmental and social safeguard compliance, and gender, citizen
engagement, and monitoring and reporting requirements for the Project.

Ds The Borrower, through MoENR, shall maintain, throughout Project
implementation a MoENR Project Implementing Unit (“MoENR-PIU”), with
functions and responsibilities for the appropriate implementation of Part 2 (b) of
the Project.

3. The Borrower, through MoEU and MoENR, shall maintain at all times qualified
staffing, budgetary resources, and authority necessary and appropriate for the
satisfactory implementation of the Project.

4. The Borrower, through MoEU and MoENR, shall establish, appoint qualified
representatives to, and thereafter maintain throughout Project implementation and
convene as necessary, a working group (“Working Group”) to support the MoEU-
PIU in the procurement, supervision and approvals of Energy Audits for building
renovations and NZEB pilots, and of ESCO contracts.

Project Operations Manual.

The Borrower, through MoEU, shall maintain, throughout Project implementation,
a Project Operations Manual (“POM”), which shall consist of different schedules
setting forth rules, methods, guidelines, specific development plans, standard
documents and procedures for the carrying out of the Project. The POM shall
include, inter alia, provisions on the following:

(a)

(b)

(c)
(d)

detailed description of all Project activities supported under this
Agreement, their sequencing and the prospective timetable and
benchmarks in relation thereto, including, inter alia:

(i)

(ii)

(iii)

(iv)

(v)

the process for (A) MoEU’s issuance of calls for proposals for
Subprojects, (B) Subproject applications, and (C) MoEU’s
evaluation and selection of Subproject proposals and ESCOs for
Part | of the Project;

MoEU’s development of Energy Audits and detailed designs and
technical specifications for energy efficiency renovations;

MoEU’s carrying out of Subprojects for the improvement of
energy performance that are in line with all building requirements
of the Borrower and acceptable to the World Bank;

MoENR’s provision of policy support to the relevant government
agencies on budgeting, procurement, ESCO contracting; and

MoENR’s development of plans for a national program for energy
efficiency in public buildings, including the development of
suitable sustainable financing mechanisms;

the parties responsible for carrying out the respective parts of the Project,
including the role of a Project monitoring committee;

the detailed qualification and selection criteria and processes;

the detailed requirements for the project initiation letters issued by MoEU
and signed by respective Subproject beneficiaries under Part | of the
Project pursuant to Section I.C.3 of this Schedule;
(e) the environmental and social safeguard instruments and arrangements,
including the grievance redress mechanism, and gender and citizen
engagement for the Project;

(f) the financial management arrangements for the Project as set forth in a
financial management manual portion of the POM;

(g) the coordination arrangements between the relevant parties for the day-to-
day execution of the Project; and

(h) Project monitoring, evaluation, reporting, and communications.

The Borrower, through MoEU, shall carry out the Project, and cause the Project to
be carried out, in accordance with the arrangements, procedures and guidelines set
forth in the POM, provided, however, that in case of any conflict between the
arrangements and procedures set out in the POM and the provisions of this
Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.

The POM, and any provision thereof, shall not be assigned, amended, abrogated
or waived, nor shall be permitted to be assigned, amended, abrogated or waived,
without the prior written consent of the Bank; the POM may only be amended in
consultation with, and after approval of, the Bank.

Subproject Eligibility and Requirements

For the purposes of Part 1 of the Project, unless otherwise agreed to between the
Bank and the Borrower, through MoEU:

(a) the eligibility of Subproject proposals shall be determined on the basis of
an appraisal carried out in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Bank and detailed in the POM; and

(b) a proposed Subproject shall be selected on the basis of criteria set forth in
the POM, which shall include, inter alia, the following requirements, with
respect to a building for which a Subproject is being proposed:

(1) the building must be owned by, or has been legally assigned to,
the central government (excluding publicly-owned enterprises,
and private buildings with public agency tenants);

(ii) (A) the construction permit for the building was issued in or after
January 2000, and (B) for buildings whose construction permit
was issued before January 2000, the building is officially assessed
by a civil engineer (registered with the Turkish Chamber of Civil
Engineers) as structurally and seismically safe, and such

11
(a)

(b)

(a)

(b)

assessment has been accepted by MoEU (recognizing that should
a building be assessed as not structurally and seismically sound,
the related structural works to address such deficiencies may be
added to a Subproject only if the total cost of the renovations
(i.e., energy efficiency and structural works) have a payback
period of under twelve (12) years));

(iii) | the building must be in operation for at least five years, and has
not had a comprehensive energy efficiency renovation completed
in the ten (10) years prior to date of the Subproject proposal;

(iv) on the basis of the building administrator’s confirmation, the
building is not planned for relocation, closure, demolition or
privatization;

(v) the building is not used for, nor is it intended to be used for, law
enforcement, security or defense purposes (e.g., police, prisons,
military); and

(vi) | the Subproject investments shall not involve any Excluded
Activities.

Annual Subproject investments shall be within the thresholds established
pursuant to Section I.D of this Schedule.

In the event that Subproject applications exceed annual investment
thresholds for Subprojects, the Borrower, through MoEU, shall rank
qualifying Subprojects based on whether the buildings have Energy
Audits, energy performance certificates or registration with MoENR for
monitoring energy consumption, higher annual energy consumption,
larger number of beneficiaries, and broad geographical coverage.

To qualify for financing under Part 1 of the Project, prior to the start of
each Subproject, the Borrower, through MoEU, shall issue to each
Subproject beneficiary (e.g., hospital) a project initiation letter, and obtain
the signature of the authorized representative of the respective Subproject
beneficiary (e.g., building administrator) to the project initiation letter.

As further detailed in the POM, each project initiation letter shall outline
the building renovation processes and procedures, and the respective
parties’ roles, responsibilities and obligations in connection with the
renovations, including specifically recognizing that (i) each Subproject is
to be carried out in accordance with the terms of this Agreement and the
POM, and (ii) the Subproject beneficiary shall enable the MoEU and the
World Bank to inspect the Subproject and any relevant records and

12
(Cc)

documents, and to prepare and furnish to the MoEU and the World Bank
all such information as the MoEU or the World Bank shall reasonably
request relating to the foregoing.

The Borrower, through MoEU, shall exercise its rights under each project
initiation letter in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower
and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan and IBRD Loan.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign,
amend, abrogate or waive any project initiation letter or any of its
provisions.

Annual Work Plan and Budget

The Borrower, through MoEU and MoENR, shall:

(a)

(b)

(c)

prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than January 1* of each year
during the implementation of the Project, a proposed Annual Work Plan
and Budget containing: (1) all activities to be carried out under the Project
during the following year; (ii) a proposed financing plan for expenditures
required for such activities, setting forth the proposed amounts and sources
of financing; and (iii) any training activities that may be required under
the Project including (A) the type of training, (B) the purpose of the
training, and (C) the cost of the training;

afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with MoEU
and MoENR on each such proposed Annual Work Plan and Budget, and
shall thereafter ensure that the Project is implemented with due diligence
during said following year, in accordance with such Annual Work Plan
and Budget as shall have been approved by the Bank; and

not make or allow to be made any change to the approved Annual Work
Plan and Budget without the Bank’s prior written approval.

Without prejudice to Section 1.D.1 above, and for the purposes of Part 1 (a) (i) and
Part 1 (a) (ii) of the Project:

(a)

by no later than July 1“ of each year during Project implementation,
beginning 2020, the Borrower, through MoEU, shall (i) carry out and
complete Energy Audits for the selected Subproject buildings to be
renovated within the subsequent 12-month period, and (ii) establish with
reasonable accuracy the estimated costs for the proposed energy efficiency
investments to be financed within the said 12-month period, all to the
satisfaction of the Bank;
(b) as part of the relevant Annual Work Plan and Budget, the Borrower,
through MoEU, shall furnish to the Bank an investment plan, setting forth
the recommendations and results of the applicable Energy Audits referred
to in paragraph (a) (i) of this provision, and the estimated costs referred to
in paragraph (a) (11) of this provision, for the purpose of enabling the Bank
to determine the percentage of the total estimated costs to be allocated for
financing under, respectively, Part 1 (a) (i) and Part 1 (a) (ii) of the Project,
for the subsequent 12-month period;

(c) the allocations referred to in paragraph (b) of this provision shall be
determined by the Bank and communicated by the Bank to the Borrower,
through MoEU; and

(d) the Borrower, through MoEU, shall withdraw from Category 1 and
Category 2 of table in Section IV.A of this Agreement, for eligible
expenditures incurred for Part 1 (a) (i) and Part 1 (a) (ii) of the Project, in
accordance with the allocations communicated by the Bank to the
Borrower, pursuant to paragraph (c) of this provision, unless otherwise
agreed to by the Bank.

Safeguards.

Without limitation to the provisions of Section 5.01 of the General Conditions, the
Borrower, through MoEU, shall carry out the Project, and cause the Project to be
carried out, as the case may be, in accordance with the provisions and
recommendations of the Environmental and Social Management Framework
(“ESMF”), and to this end, shall maintain throughout Project implementation,
dedicated teams to ensure the Project’s compliance with the ESMF and the
subsequently prepared Environmental and Social Management Plans (“ESMPs”)
acceptable to the Bank.

The Borrower, through MoEU or MoENR, as the case may be, shall incorporate
within the terms of reference of any technical services the requirements of the
Bank’s Safeguards Policies then in force and ensure that the Bank’s Safeguard
Policies are applied to the advice conveyed through such technical assistance.

The Borrower, through MoEU, shall:

(a) ensure that scheme-specific ESMPs are prepared and completed in a
manner acceptable to the Bank;

(b) ensure that scheme-specific ESMPs are integrated into the relevant
bidding documents during the time of bidding advertisement;

14
(c) submit to the Bank for its prior approval (i) the proposed design for civil
works for the first three (3) Subproject buildings under the Project, or for
such other number, or for any specific individual Subproject buildings as
determined by the Bank, and (11) the proposed contract for said works to
ensure that the provisions of the Safeguard Instruments, as relevant, are
adequately included in said contract;

(d) ensure that any contractor carrying out civil works under the Project shall
perform such work in accordance with the technical and environmental
practices applicable to the Project, as set forth in the Safeguard
Instruments, and under terms of reference and with qualifications and
experience necessary to satisfactorily carry out the design and construction
of the Project, and all of which shall be acceptable to the Bank; and

(e) ensure that any contracts for civil works under the Project include Codes
of Conduct in form and substance acceptable to the Bank.

All sites selected for the carrying out of works under the Project shall: (a) involve
no land acquisitions; and (b) be on land plots that (i) are already in the legal
possession of the Borrower, and (ii) do not and will not involve Involuntary
Resettlement.

The Borrower, through MoEU. shall immediately inform the World Bank of any
circumstances that have arisen or that may arise concerning: (a) the Borrower’s
legal possession of a proposed or selected site; or (b) the possibility of Involuntary
Resettlement on a proposed or selected site, recognizing that works carried out
under such circumstances are not eligible for financing under this Agreement.

The Borrower, through MoEU, shall ensure that the Safeguard Instruments, and
any provision thereof, shall not be amended, suspended, abrogated, terminated or
waived or permitted to be amended, suspended, abrogated, terminated or waived,
except with the prior written consent of the Bank.

The Borrower, through MoEU, shall, throughout Project implementation, maintain
and publicize the availability of a Project feedback and grievance redress
mechanism, as set forth in the ESMF, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank, to hear and determine fairly and in good faith all feedback and complaints
raised in relation to the Project, and take all measures necessary to implement the
determinations made by said feedback and grievance redress mechanism, in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank.

The Borrower, through MoEU, shall:

(a) as soon as reasonably practicable, but no later than seven (7) calendar days
after the occurrence of a Significant Event, inform the Bank by any

15
electronic means of the nature of the incident, accident, or circumstance
and any effect or impact (whether on-site or off-site) resulting or likely to
result therefrom;

(b) as soon as reasonably practicable, but no later than thirty (30) calendar
days after such Significant Event, provide the Bank with a summary report
that includes a description of such Significant Event, and the measures, if
any, that the Borrower is taking or plans to take to address such Significant
Event and to prevent any future similar event; and

(c) keep the Bank informed of the on-going implementation of the said
measures and plans.

Section II. Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation

A.

l.

Project Reports; Completion Report

The Borrower, through MoEU and MoENR, shall monitor and evaluate the
progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the
provisions of Section 2.06 of the Standard Conditions and on the basis of indicators
acceptable to the World Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one
calendar semester and shall be furnished to the World Bank not later than forty-
five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such report.

The Borrower, through MoEU and MoENR, shall prepare the Completion Report
in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.06 of the Standard Conditions. The
Completion Report shall be furnished to the World Bank not later than six months
after the Closing Date.

Financial Management; Financial Reports; Audits

The Borrower, through MoEU and MoENR, shall ensure that a financial
management system is maintained in accordance with the provisions of
Section 2.07 of the Standard Conditions.

Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower,
through MoEU and MoENR, shall ensure that interim unaudited financial reports
for the Project are prepared and furnished to the World Bank not later than forty-
five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, covering the quarter, in form
and substance satisfactory to the World Bank.

The Borrower, through MoEU and MoENR, shall have its Financial Statements
for the Project audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 (b) of the
Standard Conditions. Each such audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the
period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for
each such period shall be furnished to the World Bank not later than six (6) months
after the end of such period.

Section III. Procurement

All goods, works, non-consulting services and consulting services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in
accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in the Procurement
Regulations and the provisions of the Procurement Plan.

Section IV. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. General

l. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article III of the Standard Conditions, this Section and such
additional instructions as the World Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the “Disbursement Guidelines for Investment Project Financing” dated
February 2017, as revised from time to time by the World Bank and as made
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.

oe The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocations of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category:
      

   

Category Amount of the Loan Percentage of

Allocated Expenditures to be
(expressed in USD) Financed
inclusive of Taxes

25,200,000 100%
10,000,000 100%
of the first
USD 10,000,000 of
eligible expenditures
11,000,000 100%

    
     
  
 

   
  
   

   
 
   
   
   
  
    
    
   
  
    
    
    
     
    
 

(1) Goods, works, non-
consulting services and
consulting services
under Part | (a) (i) of
the Project

  

Goods, works, non-
consulting services and
consulting services
under Part 1 (a) (ii) of
the Project

 
 

        
  

Goods, works, non-
consulting services and
consulting services for

Part 1 (b) of the Project

  
    
 

 
 

       
 
 
 

incurred under Part 1(b) of
the Project

  

(4) Goods, works, non-
consulting services and
consulting services for
Part 1 (c) of the Project

  

(5) Goods, non-consulting
services, consulting
services, and Training
for Part 2 (a) of the
Project

  
 
    
     
      

(6) Goods, non-consulting
services, consulting
services and Training
for Part 2 (b) of the
Project

     

TOTAL AMOUNT 46,200,000
 

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be
made:

(a) from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the
Management Fee; or

(b) for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.

The Closing Date is December 31, 2025.

19

 
SCHEDULE 3

Repayment Schedule

Date Payment Due Principal Amount of the
Loan repayable
(expressed as a

On each January 15 and July 15, commencing
January 15, 2030, to and including July 15, 2039

 

20

 
APPENDIX

Definitions

L

“Annual Work Plan and Budget” means the work plan and budget prepared
annually by the Borrower, through MoEU and MoENR, and approved by the Bank
in accordance with Section I.D of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011 and as
of July 1, 2016.

“Bank’s Safeguards Policies’ means the Bank’s operational policies and
procedures, set forth in the Bank’s operational manual and identified as OP/BP
4.01, 4.04, 4.09, 4.10, 4.11, 4.12, 4.36, 4.37, 7.50 and 7.60, as said manual is

published under www. WorldBank.org/opmanual.

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV.A of Schedule 2
to this Agreement.

“Codes of Conduct” means the codes of conduct referred to in Section 1.E.3 (e) of
Schedule 2, detailing, inter alia, measures on environment, health and safety, and
preventing and responding to matters of violence (e.g., gender-based, and against
minors).

“CTF Grant Agreement” means the grant agreement between the Republic of
Turkey and the World Bank, acting as an implementing entity of the Clean
Technology Fund, for the Project, as such grant agreement is referred to in the
preamble of this Agreement, and as such CTF Grant Agreement may be amended
from time to time. “CTF Grant Agreement” includes the Standard Conditions
referenced therein and all appendices, schedules and agreements supplemental to
the CTF Grant Agreement.

“Energy Audit” means an inspection survey, an analysis of energy flows and
identification of energy conservation measures for a building; such audit provides
recommendations on processes or systems to reduce the amount of energy
consumption of a system without negatively affecting the output.

“Energy Performance Contracts” means a contract entered into between an ESCO
and a client that guarantees the realization of energy savings and/or efficiency gain
as a result of identified investments or measures and as more particularly defined
in the Project Operations Manual.

21
Li.

12.

“Environmental and Social Management Framework” or “ESMF” means the
framework prepared by the Borrower, through MoEU, and disclosed by the
Borrower, through MoEU, on its website on June 26, 2019, and in the Bank’s
website on July 9, 2019, which framework sets forth, inter alia, policies and
procedures for screening of proposed Project activities, preparation of
environmental assessment and environment management plans _ therefor,
consultation and disclosure and monitoring and reporting during the
implementation of the Project, as said framework may be amended from time to
time with the prior concurrence of the Bank.

“Environmental and Social Management Plan” or “ESMP” means a site-specific
environmental management plan, prepared in accordance with the ESMF and the
provisions of Section I.E of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and acceptable to the
Bank, and giving details the specific actions, measures and policies designed to
facilitate the Project.

“ESCO” means an energy service company that is engaged, through performance-
based contracts, to reduce energy consumption and improve efficiency of
operations for its clients.

“Excluded Activities” means, collectively:

(a) Any of the activities listed, or activities that produce and/or use materials
listed, in the POM that are classified and referred to as part of the negative
list in said manual.

(b) An investment that is classified as a Category “A” Sub-project in
accordance with the provisions of the POM.

(c) An investment that involves land acquisition or Involuntary Resettlement.

(d) An investment located in any of the following river basins in the event that
the Subproject activity entails potential use of or discharge into
waterways: Susurluk, North Aegean, Gediz, Kuguk Menderes, Buyuk
Menderes, Western Mediterranean, Antalya, Sakarya, Western Black Sea,
Yesilirmak, Kizilirmak, Konya Kapali, Eastern Mediterranean, Seyhan,
Ceyhan, Eastern Black Sea, Burdur, Afyon, Orta Anadolu and Van.

(e) An investment that involves the potential use of, or discharge into,
waterways (or detailed design and engineering studies of such investment)

located in basins not listed in sub-paragraph (d) above.

(f) An investment that involves the construction of a new dam or will rely on
the performance of an existing dam or a dam under construction.

22
LS.

14.

18.

19.

20.

wus

Ads

“IBRD Loan Agreement” means the loan agreement between the Republic of
Turkey and the World Bank providing a loan in an amount of one hundred thirty-
five million nine hundred thousand Euros (EUR 135,900,000) to assist in financing
of the Project, referred to in the preamble of this Agreement, and as the Loan
Agreement may be amended from time to time. “IBRD Loan Agreement” includes
the General Conditions referenced therein, and all appendices, schedules and
agreements supplemental to the IBRD Loan Agreement.

“Involuntary Resettlement” means any direct economic and social impact caused
by: (a) the involuntary taking of land resulting in (i) relocation or loss of shelter,
(ii) loss of assets or access to assets, and (iii) loss of income sources or means of
livelihood, whether or not the affected persons must move to another location; or
(b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and protected
areas resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihoods of such person.

“Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources” or “MoENR” means the Borrower’s
ministry of the same name, or any legal successor or successors thereto.

“Ministry of Environment and Urbanization” or “MoEU” means the Borrower’s
ministry of the same name, or any legal successor or successors thereto.

“Ministry of Treasury and Finance” means the Borrower’s ministry of the same
name or any legal successor or successors thereto.

“MoENR Project Implementation Unit” or “MoENR-PIU” means the unit
established within the MoENR for the implementation of the Project pursuant to
Section I.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“MOoEU Project Implementation Unit” or “MoEU-PIU” means the unit established
within the MoEU for the implementation of the Project pursuant to
Section I.A.1 (b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Near Zero Energy Building” or “NZEB” means a building with near zero energy
consumption, i.e., the total amount of energy used by the building on an annual
basis is roughly equal to, or only slightly more than, the amount of renewable
energy created on the site.

“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, prepared through
MoEU, for the Project, dated August 29, 2019, and provided for under Section IV
of the Procurement Regulations, as the same may be updated from time to time in
agreement with the World Bank.

“Procurement Regulations” means the “World Bank Procurement Regulations for
IPF Borrowers”, dated July 2016, revised November 2017 and August 2018.

Zo
23.

24.

is

26.

ai,

28.

29.

30.

“Project Operations Manual” or “POM” means the Project Operations Manual
referred to in Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the said manual may
be amended from time to time, with the prior written approval of the Bank, and
such term includes any schedules to the POM.

“Safeguard Instruments” means, collectively, the ESMF and ESMPs.

“Significant Event” means: (a) any significant social, labor, health and safety,
security or environmental incident, accident, or circumstance involving the
Project, including, without limitation, explosions, spills, and any workplace
accidents that result in death, serious or multiple injury, material pollution, or any
violent labor unrest or dispute between the Borrower or security forces (assigned
to protect the Project) and local communities; or (b) any other event or
circumstance having, or which could reasonably be expected to have, a material
adverse effect on the implementation or operation of the Project in accordance with
the Safeguard Instruments.

“Subprojects” means investments for the renovation of central government
buildings and central government affiliated buildings (i.e., public buildings under
central line ministries, including schools and hospitals) to improve their energy
efficiency, selected in accordance with the eligibility criteria and requirements set
forth and Section I.C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and further detailed in the
POM, and to be financed under Parts 1 (a), (b) and (c) of the Project.

“Standard Conditions” means the Standard Conditions for Loans Made by the
World Bank Out of the Climate Investment Funds, dated February 18, 2014.

“Training” means reasonable expenditures (excluding costs of consultants’
services) incurred for Project-related capacity building activities, including study
tours, training courses, seminars, workshops and other training activities; such
costs include travel, accommodation and per diem costs associated with training,
workshop and study tour participants and trainers, space and equipment rental, and
other training related miscellaneous costs, all based on an Annual Work Plan and
Budget agreed with the World Bank.

“Turkish Chamber of Civil Engineers” means the technical organization
established under the Union of Chambers of Turkish Engineers and Architects by
the Recipient’s Law No. 6235-7303.

“Working Group” means the working group referred to in Section I.A.4 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

24
