Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

 

 

LOAN NUMBER 8943-BY

Loan Agreement

(Additional Financing for the Belarus Education Modernization Project)

between
REPUBLIC OF BELARUS
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between REPUBLIC OF

BELARUS (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:

1.01.

LA.

DAD ie

2.02.

2.03.

2.04.

ZA

2.06.

2.07.

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to
and form part of this Agreement.

Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.

ARTICLE If — LOAN

The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of ninety million Euro
(€90,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”).

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower’s Representation for purposes
of taking any action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this Section is
the Borrower’s Minister of Education.

The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.

The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.

The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Variable Spread or such rate as may
apply following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General
Conditions.

The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to
this Agreement. :
3.01.

4.01.

4.02.

a0 1.

5.02.

5 Es

ARTICLE II — PROJECT

The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower, through the Ministry of Education (MoE), shall cause the
National Institute of Education (NIE) to carry out the Project, with the assistance
of the Republican Institute for Knowledge Control (RIKC), the Main Information
Analytical Center (GIAC), and the Academy of Post-Grade Education (APE) all
in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK

The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:

(a) The Ministerial Order has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed,
waived, or not enforced, in such a manner so as to affect materially and
adversely, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of NIE to carry out the
Project.

(b) The Legislation of NIE has been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed, or waived so as to affect materially or adversely, in the opinion
of the Bank, NIE’s ability to carry out the Project pursuant to the
Ministerial Order.

The Additional Events of Acceleration consist of the following, namely, that any

event specified in Section 4.01(a) and (b) of this Agreement occurs and is

continuing for a period of sixty (60) days after notice of the event has been given
by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE V —EFFECTIVENESS
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a) The Ministerial Order has been duly issued and is in full force and effect.

(b) The Project Operational Manual has been adopted by the Borrower.

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and twenty (120) days after
the Signature Date.
6.01.

6.02.

6.03.

3-

ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

Except as provided in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower’s
Representative is the Deputy Prime Minister or any successor thereto.

For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Borrower’s
address is:

Council of Ministers
House of Government
Minsk, 220010
Sovetskaya Str.11
Republic of Belarus; and

(b) the Borrower’s Electronic Address is:

Facsimile: E-mail:
375 17 2226665 contact@government.by

For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Bank’s address
iS:

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America; and
(b) the Bank’s Electronic Address is:

Telex: Facsimile: E-mail:

248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391 akremer@worldbank.org
64145(MCI)
AGREED as of the Signature Date.
REPUBLIC OF BELARUS

By
~ Authorized Representative

Name: T i V ar,
ih ster of Fou Seen

Title: Republic of Belarus
Date: A ri ZG. 20/9

K FOR RECONSTRUCTION

  
    

Authorized Represeé

Name: Alexander Kremer
Title: Lountry Hauager tor Belarus

pat: Apn'/ 26 , 20/9
_5-

SCHEDULE 1

Project Description

The objectives of the Project are to: (a) improve access to a quality learning

environment in selected General Secondary Education Institutions; and (b) strengthen the
Borrower’s student assessment and education management information systems.

The Project consists of the following parts:

Part A: Ensuring a Quality Learning Environment in General Secondary Institutions

receiving Students from closed/reorganized General Secondary Institutions

Rehabilitation of selected General Secondary Education Institutions.

Provision of, inter alia, educational equipment (including physics, chemistry,
biology, and information technology) to the above mentioned selected General
Secondary Education Institutions.

Piloting Secondary Education Institutions as centers providing social and cultural
services to communities in the Borrower’s Vitebsk oblast, including carrying out
the Rehabilitation of such Institutions.

Piloting centers of innovative teaching and learning in General Secondary
Institutions in the Borrower’s oblast of Mogilev, including carrying out the
Rehabilitation of such Institutions.

Carrying out of a study on quality of learning environments in selected General
Secondary Education Institutions using OECD tools.

Part B: Modernization of System Management in Education

Ls

Strengthening of the Borrower’s national assessment system of students in General
Secondary Education through, inter alia: (a) developing assessments of the quality
of General Secondary Education Institutions, including teaching aids and
methodological materials; (b) piloting new modalities of quality assessment in
education; (c) acquiring the necessary hardware, software and maintenance
services; (d) building the capacity of national experts and institutions to assess the
quality of education; and (e) studying international good practices for quality
assessment frameworks in general secondary education and in the use of
assessment results in decision-making.
Zz. Provision of support for the Borrower’s participation in PISA, including 2018 and
2021 including the related studies to assess students’ computer and financial
literacy in 2021 through, inter alia: (a) developing, translating and editing test
materials; (b) providing training to PISA coordinators and administrators in
Borrower’s oblasts; (c) piloting student assessments; and (d) carrying PISA studies
activities including (i) carrying out of the supervision of students’ performance
assessments; (11) processing and analyzing student performance assessments; and
(i11) carrying out the comparison of students’ test results between those of PISA
2018 and those corresponding to PISA 2021.

a Carrying out of extended research on education quality based on the PISA 2018
and 2021 results. Developing recommendations to improve educational quality in
the context of human capital development, including provision of support to
analyze and interpret results of international comparative studies in education.

4. Strengthening of the Borrower’s education management information system
through, inter alia: (a) developing an integrated system for collecting, processing
and analyzing data from educational institutions including acquiring the necessary
software and hardware; (b) providing training to EMIS users and operators;
(c) pursuing certification/attestation for the EMIS and its components; (d) rolling
out of the EMIS at all levels of Borrower’s education; (e) developing
interconnectivity between the EMIS and other Borrower’s information systems,
including the labor market information system; and (f) promoting the analysis of
the data and its use in decision-making.

5. Carrying out of Training of managerial staff and education professionals at rayon,
oblast, and national levels of the General Secondary Education system on different
topics of educational modernization, including international educational visits.

Part C: Support for the Implementation, Monitoring and Evaluation of the Project

The provision of support (including provision of goods, consulting services,
carrying out of Training, Operating Costs and audits) for the implementation, monitoring
and evaluation of the Project.
-7-

SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Section I. Implementation Arrangements

A. Institutional Arrangements

1. The Borrower shall vest the overall responsibility for the implementation of the
Project in MoE, and to this end, through MoE, shall:

(a) cause NIE to: (i) operate and maintain, throughout Project
implementation, the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) with qualified
staff in sufficient numbers, as well as adequate funds, facilities, services,
and other resources for Project implementation (including, procurement,
financial management, environmental and social aspects, and monitoring
and evaluation), all acceptable to the Bank; (ii) ensure that any additional
staff of the PIU financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is selected and
hired in accordance Procurement Regulations; and (iii) no later than ninety
(90) days after the Effective Date, sign the contract for installation and
adaptation of the 1C accounting software for Project accounting,
budgeting and reporting under terms and in a manner acceptable to the
Bank; and

(b) ensure, throughout Project implementation, the coordination between NIE
and MoE’s subordinated agencies participating in the implementation of
the technical aspects of Part B of the Project (including, the Republican
Institute for Knowledge Control (RIKC), Academy of Post-graduate
Education (APE), and the Main Information Analytical Center (GIAC), all
with powers, functions, capacity, staffing, and resources acceptable to the
Bank to fulfill their respective responsibilities under the Project.

2. The Borrower, through MoE, shall cause NIE to: (a) carry out the Project in
accordance with the requirements set forth in a manual acceptable to the Bank
(Project Operational Manual or POM); and (b) not assign, amend, abrogate, or
waive the POM or any of its provisions, except with the prior written approval of
the Bank. In case of any conflict between the terms of the POM and those of this
Agreement, the terms and conditions of this Agreement shall prevail.

B. Ministerial Order
1. To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower, through MoE, shall issue

a ministerial order, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank (Ministerial
Order) which shall include, inter alia:
an AE

(a) the obligation of NIE to: (i) implement the Project in accordance with the
pertinent provisions of this Agreement (including compliance with the
pertinent provisions set forth in the relevant Safeguards and Financial
Management sections, and the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions, the Anti-Corruption Guidelines, the Procurement Regulations,
and the POM; (ii) promptly inform the Borrower and the Bank of any
condition which interferes, or threatens to interfere, with the performance
of its obligations under the Ministerial Order; and (iii) take or permit to be
taken all actions to enable the Borrower to comply with the obligations
referred to in this Agreement as applicable to NIE; and

(b) the obligation of the RIKC, the GIAC and the APE each to assist the MoE
and NIE in the implementation of the technical aspects of the Project and
in compliance with the pertinent provisions of this Agreement.

Safeguards

The Borrower shall (a) carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of
the Safeguards Instruments; and (b) ensure that any contracts for civil works under
the Project incorporate the pertinent requirements of Safeguard Instruments and
include codes of conduct in form and substance acceptable to the Bank, detailing,
inter alia, measures that need to be undertaken by contractor and sub-contractors
on environmental, health and safety.

Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure, and cause to
ensure, that none of the provisions of the Safeguard Instruments is abrogated,
amended, repealed, suspended, or waived. In case of any inconsistencies between
the provisions of any of the Safeguard Instruments and the provisions of this
Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.

The Borrower shall maintain, throughout Project implementation, and publicize
the availability of a grievance redress mechanism, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank, to hear and determine fairly and in good faith all
complaints raised in relation to the Project, and take all measures necessary to
implement the determinations made by such mechanism in a manner satisfactory
to the Bank.

The Borrower shall, throughout the period of Project implementation:

(a) take all measures necessary on its part to collect, compile and furnish to
the Bank through Project Reports, and promptly in a separate report or
reports, if so requested by the Bank, information on the status of
compliance with the Safeguard Instruments, all such reports in form and
substance acceptable to the Bank, setting out, among other things: (i) the
-9-

status of implementation of the Safeguard Instruments; (ii) conditions, if
any, which interfere or threaten to interfere with the implementation of the
Safeguard Instruments; and (iii) corrective and preventive measures taken
or required to be taken to address such conditions; and

(b) promptly notify the Bank of any incident or accident related to or having
an impact on the Project, which has, or is likely to have, a significant
adverse effect on the environment, the affected communities, the public,
or workers.

Ds The Borrower shall ensure that technical assistance under the Project, shall only
be undertaken pursuant to terms of reference reviewed and found satisfactory by
the Bank. Such terms of reference shall ensure that the technical assistance takes
into account, and calls for application of the Bank’s Safeguard Policies.

Section II. Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation

The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank each Project Report not later than one
month after the end of each calendar semester, covering the calendar semester.

Section III. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. General

Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and
in accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the Borrower
may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to: (1) finance Eligible Expenditures; and (ii) pay:
(a) the Front-end Fee and (b) each Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar premium; in
the amount allocated and, if applicable, up to the percentage set forth against each Category
of the following table:
-10-
Amount of the Loan | Percentage of Expenditures
Category Allocated to be financed
expressed in EUR inclusive of Taxes

(1) Goods, works, non-
consulting services,
consulting services, and 89,775,000 100%
Operating Costs for the
Project

Amount payable pursuant to
Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions

(3) Interest Rate Cap or Amount due pursuant to
Interest Rate Collar Section 4.05 (c) of the
premium General Conditions
joraranout | maw

B. Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

      
  
 
 
      
  
   

    
   
     
     

(2) Front-end Fee 225,000

  

   
 

 
    

1. Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A above, no withdrawal shall be made for
payments made prior to the Signature Date.

2. The Closing Date is February 28, 2025.

SectionIV. Other Undertakings
A. Amendment to the Original Loan Agreement
The Original Loan Agreement is amended as follows:

Ie The Schedule 1 of the Original Loan Agreement is modified to read as set forth in
the Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

yas The Closing Date in the Section IV of the Schedule 2 of the Original Loan
Agreement is modified to read February 28, 2025.

3. The definition.of Operating Costs is deleted and replaced by the definition of
Operating Costs in the Appendix to this Agreement.
-1l-

SCHEDULE 3
Commitment-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment
Date (“Installment Share’).

Level Principal Repayments

Principal Payment Date Installment Share

On each April 15 and October 15

Beginning April 15, 2025
through April 15, 2033

On October 15, 2033 5.48%

   
 
      
   
_12-

APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

1.

“Academy of Post-Graduate Education” or “APE” means “J ocyOapcmeennoe
yupencoenue oOpa3zoeanua "Axademua nociedunnomHozo odpazoeanua", the
Borrower’s MoE academy “Academy of Post-Graduate Education”, established
pursuant to the MoE’s Order No. 418, dated July 23, 1997, as amended, or any
successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix
to the General Conditions, the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud
and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”,
dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section III.A of Schedule 2
to this Agreement.

“EMIS” means the Borrower’s Education Management and Information System.

“Environmental and Social Management Framework” or “ESMF” means the
framework for the Project prepared by the Borrower, and disclosed on November
21, 2017 and on the MoE’s website on April 25, 2018 and on the Bank’s website
on April 26, 2018 which sets forth, inter alia, the modalities for site-specific
environmental and social screening, including: (a) guidelines for the identification
of existing environmental and social conditions and potential direct and indirect
environmental and social impacts and risks resulting from the carrying out of the
Project; (b) guidelines for the carrying out of environmental and social assessments
and the preparation of environmental and social management plans (ESMPs),
when applicable; (c) recommendation of mitigation measures for each negative
impact identified; (d) measures for enhancing each identified positive impact; and
(e) guidelines for the preparation of environmental and social monitoring plans for
tracking the application of the mitigation measures, as said framework may be
amended from time to time with the Bank’s prior approval.

“Environmental and Social Management Plan” or “ESMP” means the
instrument prepared by the Borrower, pursuant to the ESMF, satisfactory to the
Bank and to be disclosed by the Borrower, and on the Bank’s website which
details (a) the measures to be taken during the implementation and operation
of the Project to avoid, minimize, mitigate or offset adverse environmental and
social impacts (including health and safety issues), or to reduce them to
acceptable levels; and (b) the actions needed to implement these measures, as
said instrument may be amended from time to time with the Bank’s prior
written agreement.
10.

11.

jw

Las

14.

1D;

. 14

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project
Financing”, dated December 14, 2018.

“General Secondary Education” means the Borrower’s education provided to
children in grades 1 through 11, pursuant to the Borrower’s Education Code, dated
January 13, 2011.

“General Secondary Education Institutions” means educational institutions in the
Borrower’s territory providing General Secondary Education.

‘Main Information Analytical Center” or “GIAC” means yupeacdenue “I naénoiti

unqopmMayuonHo-ananumuyeckuu yexmp Munucmepcmea  odpa3zoeanua
Pecnyonuxu Benapyce”’, the Borrower’s MoE Institution “Main Information
Analytical Center” established pursuant to the MoE’s Order No. 268, dated
October 20, 1992, as amended, or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.

‘Ministerial Order” means MoE Ministerial Order designating responsibility to
NIE for the implementation of the Project, as referred to in Section I.B of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.

“Ministry of Education” or “MoE” means the Borrower’s ministry of education,
or any of successor thereto.

“National Institute of Education” or “NIE” means nayyxo-memoduuecKkoe
yupencoenue “Hayuonalbuolu uxcmumym oOpa3zo0eanua” Munucmepcmea
oopazsoeanua = Pecnyonuxu Benapyceb, the Borrower’s MoE research
methodological institution “National Institute of Education” established pursuant
to the Resolution of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Belarus No. 608,
dated May 13, 2002, as amended, or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.

“OECD” means Organization for Economic-Cooperation and Development
established pursuant to the Convention on the Organization for Economic
Co-operation and Development, dated December 14, 1960.

“Operating Costs” means the reasonable incremental operating expenditures
incurred by the NIE, which would not exist absent the Project, required for an
efficient Project implementation and monitoring, including costs for office rent,
operation and maintenance of vehicles, office equipment and _ supplies,
communication costs, support for information systems, translations, bank charges,
travel and per diem costs, salaries of the contractual staff (excluding consulting
services and salaries of officials of the Borrower’s civil service), the annual
participation fee in PISA and the carrying of studies under Part A.5 of Schedule 1
to this Agreement (payable to OECD), printing and distribution of students’
16.

Li.

18.

19.

20.

21.

betes

23.

-14-

performance assessment under Part B.2(i) of the Project, office administration
costs, and other reasonable expenditures directly associated with the carrying out
of the Project, all based on annual budgets acceptable to the Bank.

“Original Loan” means the amount of fifty million Dollars (USD 50,000,000)
(Loan No. 8529-BY).

“Original Loan Agreement” means the agreement entered into between the
Borrower and the Bank dated September 23, 2015 for purposes of financing the
Original Loan.

“PISA” or “Programme for International Student Assessment” means the triennial
international survey carried out by the OECD.

“PISA 2018 and 2021” means each the seventh and eighth cycle of PISA as
applicable.

“Procurement Regulations” means, for purposes of paragraph 85 of the Appendix
to the General Conditions, the “World Bank Procurement Regulations for IPF
Borrowers”, dated July 2016, revised November 2017 and August 2018.

“Project Implementing Unit” or “PIU” means the unit referred to in Section I.A.1
(a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement or any successor thereto as agreed between the
Borrower and the Bank.

“Project Operational Manual” or “POM” means the manual prepared for the
Original Project as amended for purposes of this Additional Financing, acceptable
to the Bank, prepared and adopted by the Borrower, describing and setting forth
procedures inter alia, the activities and timetable of actions to be carried out under
the Project, the respective roles and responsibilities of the Borrower’s subordinated
agencies and any other relevant ministry involved in the implementation of the
Project, the staff of the Project Implementing Unit, the fiduciary, technical and
operational aspects and procedures for implementation of the Project, including
the financial management procedures (budgeting, accounting and internal control,
disbursement and flow of funds, financial reporting, annual reports, internal and
external audit arrangements procedures, and including the Project specific chart of
accounts), procurement procedures, monitoring and evaluation arrangements, and
other fiduciary and administrative arrangements and necessary terms of reference,
as the same may be amended from time to time with the prior written agreement
of the Bank.

“Rehabilitation” means, for purposes of this Project only, reconstruction and/or
capital repairs of existing premises and infrastructure under this Project.
24.

25.

26.

didi

-15-

“Republican Institute for Knowledge Control” or “RIKC” means yypeocdenue
oopasoeanusa “PecnyélukancKuu uucmumym KoHMposA 3HaHUu’’, the Borrower’s
MoE education institution “Republican Institute for Knowledge Control”,
established pursuant to the MoE’s Order No. 180, dated April 25, 2000, as
amended, or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.

“Safeguards Instruments” means collectively, the ESMF and ESMP and
“Safeguard Instrument” means any of such Safeguards Instruments.

“Signature Date” means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the
Bank signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to “the
date of the Loan Agreement” in the General Conditions.

“Training” means expenditures (other than those for consultants’ services)
incurred by the Borrower in connection with the carrying out of training activities
(such as seminars, workshops, including the reasonable travel costs (i.e.
accommodation, transportation and per-diem, inter alia) of trainees and trainers (if
applicable), training registration fees, catering, rental of training facilities and
equipment, logistics and printing services, as well as training materials, all for the
purposes of, and directly related to, the activities of the Project.
