Public Disclosure Authorized -

Public Disclosure Authorized

OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

 

 

SCF-PPCR LOAN NUMBER TF0A9610-NE

Strategic Climate Fund — Pilot Program for
Climate Resilience
Loan Agreement

(Additional Financing for Community Action Project for Climate Resilience)
between
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

acting as an implementing entity of the Pilot Program for Climate Resilience under the
Strategic Climate Fund

Dated May 8 ,2019
SCF-PPCR LOAN NUMBER TF0A9610-NE

STRATEGIC CLIMATE FUND — PILOT PROGRAM FOR CLIMATE
RESILIENCE LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT dated May 8 , 2019, entered into between:

REPUBLIC OF NIGER (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“World Bank”), acting not in its
individual capacity but solely in its capacity as an implementing entity of the Pilot Program
for Climate Resilience (“PPCR”’) under the Strategic Climate Fund (“SCF”).

The Borrower and the World Bank hereby agree as follows:
Article I
Standard Conditions; Definitions

1.01. The Standard Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.

1.02. Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the Standard Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.

Article I
Loan

2.01. The World Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set
forth or referred to in this Agreement, the amount of nine million five hundred
ninety-seven thousand United States Dollars ($9,597,000) (“Loan”), to assist in
financing the project described in Schedule | to this Agreement (“Project”).

2.02. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

2.03. The Loan is funded out of the resources made available to the World Bank as an
implementing entity of the SCF. In accordance with Section 3.02 of the Standard
Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement), the World Bank’s
payment obligations in connection with this Agreement are limited to the amount of
funds made available to it from the SCF trust fund, and the Borrower’s right to
withdraw the Loan proceeds is subject to the availability of such funds.

2.04. The Service Charge payable by the Borrower on the Withdrawn Loan Balance
shall be equal to one-tenths of one percent (1/10 of 1%) per annum.
2.05.

2.06.

LMT

301.

The Payment Dates are April 1 and October | in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the repayment
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

The Payment Currency is USD.

Article III
The Project

The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project and to its
Strategic Program for Climate Resilience approved in November 2010 (“SPCR”).
To this end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through its ministry in charge
of planning, with the support of the Technical Entities as applicable, in accordance
with the provisions of Article II of the Standard Conditions.

Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the World Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
4.01.

4.02.

5.01.

5.02.

Article IV
Effectiveness; Termination

The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists, of namely, the Financing
Agreement has been signed and delivered, and all conditions of effectiveness of
said agreement or the right of the Borrower to withdraw funds thereunder have
been satisfied, except for the condition that this Agreement has become effective.

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and twenty (120) days after
the date of this Agreement.

Article V
Borrower’s Representative; Addresses

The Borrower’s Representative referred to in Section 10.02 of the Standard
Conditions is the Borrower’s minister responsible for planning.

The Borrower’s Address referred to in Section 10.01 of the Standard Conditions
iS:

Ministére du Plan
B.P. 862
Niamey
Republic of Niger

Facsimile:
227 20725322

The World Bank’s Address referred to in Section 10.01 of the Standard Conditions
iS:

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America

Cable: Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or 1-202-477-6391

Washington, D.C. 64145 (MCI)
AGREED at Niamey _, May 8, 2019 , as of the day and year first above written.

 

REPUBLIC OF NIGER
Approved By:
Authorized Representative
Name: Mamadou DiopA~
Title: _ Minister of We
Date: Mav 8 201°
Signed By
Title: Minister of Planning
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR

RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(acting as an implementing entity of the Pilot Program for
Climate Resilience under the Strategic Climate Fund)

By

Authorized Representative

Name: Joelle Béatrice Dehasse

Title: _ Niger Country Manager
SCHEDULE 1

Project Description

The objective of the Project is to improve resilience of the populations and of
production systems to climate change and variability in Targeted Communes.

The Project consists of the Original Project as modified below:

Component 1: Mainstreaming Climate Resilience into Development Strategies at the

Laka

L2.

National and Local Levels

Mainstreaming Climate Resilience. Providing technical assistance, goods and
services to make the social and economic development policies in the health, water
and road infrastructure sectors more responsive to climate change, through:

(a)

(b)

(c)

at the central level: (i) the establishment of a multidisciplinary task force
to ensure a participatory policy formulation process; (ii) the carrying out
of in-depth studies and assessments in order to identify potential climate
scenarios over the next decade; (iii) the establishment of major tools for
planning, monitoring and evaluation of climate-sensitive investments; and
(iv) the organization of large public consultations; and

at the local level: (i) the review, revision in order to incorporate climate
sensitive issues, and validation of the guidelines for local development
planning in collaboration with the DGAT/DC; (ii) the provision of support
to the Targeted Communes in the preparation or revision of their local
development plans and their annual budgets in order to better integrate
climate-sensitive initiatives; and (iii) the provision of institutional support
to the Borrower’s National Agency for the Investments of Local
Municipalities (Agence Nationale pour I’Investissement des Collectivités
Territoriales).

the preparation of detailed action plans based on national sector strategies
and local developmental plans prepared under Parts 1.1(a) and 1.1(b) of
the Project or any other relevant national programs and plans, including
the preparation of feasibility studies, analytical studies and other
assessments that would inform the future implementation of these action
plans.

Communication Strategy and Knowledge Management. Providing technical
assistance, goods and services for the purpose of defining and implementing a
comprehensive communication strategy and a system of effective knowledge
management, including the organization of general sensitization, social
mobilization and information initiatives, as well as specialized Training sessions
addressed to key stakeholders.

Integration of New Technologies to the Knowledge Management System.
Providing technical assistance, goods and services for the purpose of integration
of new technologies to the knowledge management system developed under sub-
component 1.2, such as satellite imagery and other state-of-the art technologies, to
help inform national and regional decision-making, including on spatial planning
and disaster-risk management, as well as to help in the monitoring of the Project’s
impact.

Component 2: Integrating Climate Resilience Practices into Agro-Sylvo-Pastoral

dels

Dike

Systems and Local Populations’ Social Protection Measures

Providing to Targeted Communes technical assistance and funding for the
financing by Targeted Communes of technical assistance, works, goods and
services to improve resilience of agro-sylvo-pastoral systems and local populations
to climate variability and change, including by:

Improving the resilience of agro-sylvo-pastoral systems, by: (a) scaling up
sustainable land and water management practices to reduce climate change impacts
through capacity building activities in the areas of agriculture, agro-forestry, agro-
pastoralism and pastoralism, selected with a gender-sensitive approach, and with
the aim of improving agricultural productivity, sustainable management of forest
resources, and productivity of grazing areas; and (b) providing Matching Grants to
Targeted Communes to finance activities to improve agricultural productivity,
sustainable management of forest resources and productivity of grazing areas,
included in Targeted Communes’ approved local development plans and budgets.

Integrating innovative measures to protect the poorest and most vulnerable
households, by:

(a) designing and establishing a system aimed at integrating into local
planning innovative measures for the protection of the poorest and most
vulnerable households through flexible social protection actions, including
actions listed in paragraph (b) immediately below; and

(b) providing Matching Grants to Targeted Communes to finance social
protection actions as part of the implementation of the system designed
and established in paragraph (a) immediately above, including: (i) the
protection and rehabilitation of socio-economic community facilities that
are vulnerable to main effects of climate risks; (ii) the implementation of
a simple, realistic and well performing cash transfer system for the most
vulnerable households; (iii) the organization of remunerated seasonal
labor intensive activities for the members of the poor households; and (iv)
the distribution of food stamps to chronically poor households in order to
buy essential food items, each on the basis of targeting, payment or
distribution, monitoring and evaluation, and grievance systems acceptable
to the World Bank.

Establishing and operationalizing integrated multi-services platforms at Targeted
Communes (“Maisons du Paysan”) by financing works, technical assistance,
Training and equipment, including the provision of advisory services offered by
Maisons du Paysan to local communities on topics aimed at improving the
performance of family farms and agricultural enterprises, such as sustainable land
management practices, storage and trade of food, fodder supplements and
agricultural inputs, knowledge dissemination, use of new technology for climate
forecasting and access to data; and gender inclusiveness and sensitivity.

Component 3: Ensuring Coordination of all Activities of the Project (including

monitoring and evaluation activities) and SPCR Overall Strategic
Coordination

Ensuring coordination of the Project activities, including monitoring and
evaluation.

Ensuring strategic coordination of the SPCR and knowledge sharing concerning
the Project’s and SPCR’s approach, results, challenges and impacts at the national
level with key stakeholders and at the international level with other countries
participating in the Pilot Program for Climate Resilience.
SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Section I. Institutional and Other Arrangements
A. Institutional Arrangements

The Borrower shall maintain the following institutional arrangements, further
described in the Project Implementation Manual, throughout the implementation of the

Project.

l. (a)

(b)

(b)

(a)

U2

(b)

(c)

The Borrower shall maintain the Steering Committee, with attributions
and composition acceptable to the World Bank (the “Steering
Committee’).

Without limitation to the generality of paragraph (a) immediately above,
the Steering Committee shall, inter alia, review and validate the Project’s
draft annual work plans and budgets (with the input of representatives
from the Borrower’s ministries responsible for health, water and road
infrastructure), to be submitted to the World Bank for approval in
accordance with Section I.E of this Schedule.

The Borrower shall maintain the Strategic Coordination Unit within the
Borrower’s ministry in charge of planning with composition and
attributions satisfactory to the World Bank.

Without limitation to the generality of paragraph (a) immediately above,
the Strategic Coordination Unit, shall, inter alia, ensure coordination of
the SPCR’s activities.

The Borrower shall maintain the PCU with attributions and composition
at the time satisfactory to the World Bank.

Without limitation to the generality of paragraph (a) immediately above,
the PCU shall be responsible for, inter alia, the overall coordination of the
Project, including the Project’s fiduciary aspects, comprising financial
management, accounting, procurement, reporting, monitoring and
evaluation.

Without limitation to the generality of paragraph (a) immediately above,
the Borrower shall maintain the following staff for the Project, each
selected on the basis of terms of reference, qualifications and experience
satisfactory to the World Bank and in accordance with the provisions of
Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and each to be posted in the
PCU: (i) a Project coordinator; (ii) a monitoring and evaluation specialist,
(iii) a procurement assistant, (iv) one accountant, (v) one environmental
and social safeguards specialist, and (vi) an administrative and financial
manager.

(a) The Borrower shall maintain the Technical Coordination Committee, with
composition, attributions and allocation of responsibilities satisfactory to
the World Bank.

(b) Without limitation to the generality of paragraph (a) immediately above,
the Technical Coordination Committee shall include five (5) focal points
(one for the executive secretariat of CNEDD, one for DGEF, one for
DGDRL, one for the 3N Initiative, and one for the PCU) designated by the
Borrower to ensure smooth coordination with each of the entities
responsible for the technical implementation of activities included in the
Project (each a “Technical Entity”), and the Borrower’s focal point for the
implementation of the SPCR.

(c) Without limitation to the generality of paragraph (a) immediately above,
the Technical Coordination Committee shall, inter alia, coordinate the

activities of the Technical Entities.

The Borrower shall ensure that Project activities are carried out under the overall
responsibility of the following Technical Entities:

(a) Sub-Component 1.1 by the Climate Change Unit of the CNEDD;

(b) Sub-Component 1.2 by Communication Unit of the CNEDD;

(c) Sub-Component 1.3 by National Center for Ecological and Environmental
Monitoring of the Recipient’s ministry in charge of environment, urban
sanitation and sustainable development;

(d) Sub-Component 2.1 by the DGEF;

(e) Sub-Component 2.2 by the DGDRL;

(f) Sub-Component 2.3 by the PCU;

(g) Sub-Component 3.1 by the PCU; and

(h) Sub-Component 3.2 by the Strategic Coordination Unit.

The Borrower shall ensure that personnel in adequate numbers, each with terms of

reference, qualifications and experience satisfactory to the World Bank, are
assigned to the Project.

 
l.

Contractual Arrangements

Matching Grant Agreements

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

The Borrower shall, through annual allocations of proceeds of the
Financing to Targeted Communes in accordance with criteria specified in
the Project Implementation Manual, finance Matching Grants under sub-
component 2.1(b) of the Project. Each Targeted Commune shall appraise,
propose for a financing under a Matching Grant, and monitor the Micro-
projects, and administer the Matching Grants under sub-component 2.1(b)
of the Project, in accordance with the provisions and procedures set forth
in this Section I.B.1 and in more detail in the Project Implementation
Manual.

No proposed Micro-project shall be eligible for financing under a
Matching Grant out of the proceeds of the Financing unless the Targeted
Commune has determined, on the basis of an appraisal it has conducted in
accordance with this Section and the guidelines set forth in the Project
Implementation Manual, the Environmental and Social Management
Framework and the Resettlement Policy Framework, that the relevant
Micro-project satisfies the eligibility criteria specified in more detail in the
Project Implementation Manual.

A Matching Grant shall be provided and a Micro-project shall be carried
out pursuant to the provisions of a Matching Grant Agreement, to be
concluded between the Borrower, through the PCU or its regional
representation, and the Targeted Commune, drafted on the basis of the
model agreement attached to the Project Implementation Manual, and
under terms and conditions described in more detail in the Project
Implementation Manual, which shall, inter alia, include the provisions
listed in paragraph (d) immediately below.

In each of the Matching Grant Agreements, the Borrower shall obtain
rights adequate to protect the interests of the Borrower and the World
Bank, including the right to require the other party to:

(i) carry out its activities under its respective part of the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound
technical, economic, financial, managerial, environmental and
social standards and practices satisfactory to the World Bank,
including, without limitation to the generality of the foregoing, in
accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines
applicable to recipients of Financing proceeds other than the
Borrower, each of the Manuals, and the Safeguard Documents;
(e)

(f)

(ii)

(iii)

(iv)

maintain policies and procedures, adequate to enable the other
party to monitor and evaluate in accordance with indicators
acceptable to the World Bank, the progress of the activities carried
out under its respective part of the Project and the achievement of
its objective;

(A) maintain a financial management system and prepare financial
statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting
standards acceptable to the World Bank, both in a manner
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures
related to the activities carried out under its respective part of the
Project; and (B) at the World Bank’s or the Borrower’s request,
have such financial statements audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the World Bank, in accordance with consistently
applied auditing standards acceptable to the World Bank, and
furnish promptly to the Borrower and the World Bank the
financial statements as so audited; and

enable the Borrower and the World Bank to inspect the activities
carried out under its respective part of the Project, their operation
and any relevant records and documents; and prepare and furnish
to the Borrower and the World Bank all such information as the
Borrower or the World Bank shall reasonably request relating to
the foregoing.

The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under
each Matching Grant Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the World Bank and to accomplish the purposes of
the Financing.

Except as the World Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not
assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of the Matching Grant Agreements
or any of their provisions.

Anti-Corruption

The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.

Safeguards

The Borrower shall ensure that the Project shall be implemented in accordance
with the guidelines, procedures, timetables and other specifications set forth in the
Safeguard Documents. In particular, the Borrower shall ensure that:
(a) for each activity under the Project of a type for which the Environmental
and Social Management Framework provides that an Environmental and
Social Management Plan should be prepared, such Environmental and
Social Management Plan, in form and substance satisfactory to the World
Bank, is effectively prepared and locally disclosed, before the
implementation of such activity, in accordance with the provisions of the
Environmental and Social Management Framework, and the relevant
activity is implemented in accordance with its Environmental and Social
Management Plan; and

(b) for each activity under the Project of a type for which the Resettlement
Policy Framework provides that a Resettlement Action Plan should be
prepared, such Resettlement Action Plan, in form and substance
satisfactory to the World Bank, is effectively prepared and locally
disclosed, before the implementation of such activity, in accordance with
the provisions of the Resettlement Policy Framework, and the relevant
activity is implemented in accordance with its Resettlement Action Plan.

Except as the World Bank shall otherwise agree in writing and subject to
compliance with applicable consultation and public disclosure requirements of the
World Bank, the Borrower shall not abrogate, amend, repeal, suspend or waive any
provisions of any of the Safeguard Documents, nor shall it permit any Targeting
Commune to do so.

Without limitation upon its other reporting obligations under this Agreement, the
Borrower shall regularly collect, compile and submit to the World Bank, on a semi-
annual basis, reports on the status of compliance with the Safeguard Documents,
giving details of: (a) measures taken in furtherance of the Safeguard Documents;
(b) conditions, if any, which interfere or threaten to interfere with the smooth
implementation of the Safeguard Documents; and (c) remedial measures taken or
required to be taken to address such conditions.

The Borrower shall ensure that all contracts for civil works under the Project
obligate the applicable contractors and subcontractors to: (a) adopt and enforce a
code of conduct that applies to and is signed by all personnel working on any
Project activities, in form and substance acceptable to the World Bank, detailing
measures on environmental, health and safety as well as measures to prevent and
respond to gender-based violence; (b) report promptly to the PCU any allegations
of gender-based violence against any of their personnel; and (c) investigate
promptly and thoroughly any allegations of violations of said code of conduct.

Technical Assistance. The Borrower shall ensure that: (a) all consultancies related
to technical assistance, design and capacity building under the Project, the
application of whose results could have environmental, social and health and safety
implications, shall only be undertaken pursuant to terms of reference reviewed and
found satisfactory by the World Bank; and (b) such terms of reference shall require
the technical assistance, design and capacity building activities to take into account
the requirements of the applicable Safeguards Policies and EHS Guidelines.

Grievance Redress Mechanism. The Borrower shall maintain, throughout Project
implementation, and publicize the availability of a grievance redress mechanism,
in form and substance satisfactory to the World Bank, to hear and determine fairly
and in good faith all complaints raised in relation to the Project and take all
measures necessary to implement the determinations made by such mechanism in
a manner satisfactory to the World Bank.

In the event that any provision of the Safeguard Documents shall conflict with any
provision under this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.

Annual Work Plans and Budgets

Each year, the PCU shall prepare on the basis of activities proposed by the
Technical Entities, and the Steering Committee shall validate a draft annual work
plan and budget for the Project (including Training and Operating Costs) for each
subsequent year of Project implementation, of such scope and detail as the World
Bank shall have reasonably requested.

The Borrower shall furnish to the World Bank, as soon as available, but in any case
not later than November 30 of each year, the annual work plans and budgets for
their review and approval. Only the activities included in an annual work plan and
budget expressly approved by the World Bank (each an “Annual Work Plan and
Budget’) are eligible to a financing from the proceeds of the Financing.

Training shall be carried out on the basis of Annual Work Plans and Budgets,
which shall, inter alia, identify: (a) particulars of the training envisaged; (b) the
personnel to be trained; (c) the selection method of the institution or individuals
conducting such training; (d) the institution conducting such training if identified;
(e) the purpose and justification for such training; (f) the location and duration of
the proposed training; and (g) the estimate of the cost of such training.

The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
Annual Work Plans and Budgets.

Annual Work Plans and Budgets may be revised as needed during Project
implementation subject to the World Bank’s prior approval.

Manuals

(a) The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
Manuals; and (b) except as the World Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
2.

shall not assign, amend, abrogate, or waive any of the Manuals, or any provision
thereof.

In the event of any conflict between the provisions of any of the Manuals and those
of this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.

Section II. Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation

A.

hs

U2

Project Reports; Completion Report

The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.06 of the Standard
Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the World Bank. Each
Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be
furnished to the World Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the
period covered by such report.

The Borrower shall prepare the Completion Report in accordance with the
provisions of Section 2.06 of the Standard Conditions. The Completion Report
shall be furnished to the World Bank not later than five (5) months after the Closing
Date. In order to assist the Borrower in preparing the Completion Report, the
Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms of
reference are acceptable to the World Bank in accordance with the provisions of
Section III of this Schedule.

Financial Management; Financial Reports; Audits

The Borrower shall ensure that a financial management system is maintained in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of the Standard Conditions.

The Borrower shall ensure that interim unaudited financial reports for the Project
are prepared and furnished to the World Bank not later than forty-five (45) days
after the end of each calendar quarter, covering the quarter, in form and substance
satisfactory to the World Bank.

The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements for the Project audited in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07(b) of the Standard Conditions.
Each such audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal
year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall
be furnished to the World Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such
period.

In order to ensure the timely carrying out of the audits referred to in Section II. B.3
of this Schedule, the Borrower shall engage independent auditors for the purpose

UY
not later than four (4) months after the Effective Date, in accordance with the
provisions of Section III of this Schedule.

Section III. Procurement
All goods, works, non-consulting services and consulting services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in
accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in the Procurement

Regulations and the provisions of the Procurement Plan.

Section IV. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

 

A. General

l. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of: (a) Article III of the Standard Conditions; (b) this Section; and (c)
such additional instructions as the World Bank may specify by notice to the
Borrower (including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Investment
Project Financing ” dated Feb 2017, as revised from time to time by the World
Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to
finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.

he The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocations of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category:
   
   
   
  

   
  
    

Amount of

 
   
   
  
  

Percentage of

 
 
  
 

the Loan Expenditures to be
Category Allocated Financed
(expressed in (inclusive of
USD) Taxes)

   
  
  
   
  

  
 
 
    
 
  

  

(1) Goods, works, non-consulting
services, consulting services and
Training, under Component 2.3 of
the Project

9,027,000 100%

570,000 65%

  

Goods, non-consulting services,
consulting services, Training and
Operating Costs under Component
3.1 of the Project

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

 

 
    

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.

The Closing Date referred to in Section 3.06(c) of the Standard Conditions is May
31, 2021.
SCHEDULE 3

 

Repayment Schedule

repayable
expressed as a percentage

commencing October 1, 2029 to and including 1%
April 1, 2039

commencing October 1, 2039 to and including 2%
April 1, 2059

   
      
   

  

 
 

 
APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

he

Uo

“3N Initiative” means Les Nigériens Nourrissent les Nigériens, a national program
of the Borrower adopted pursuant to Decree No 2016-603/PRN dated November
3, 2016.

“Annual Work Plans and Budgets” means the annual work plans and budgets for
the implementation of the Project approved by the World Bank in accordance with
Section I.E.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011 and as
of July 1, 2016.

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.

“CNEDD” means the Borrower’s National Council of Environment for a
Sustainable Development (Conseil National de l'Environnement pour un
Développement Durable).

“DGDRL” means Direction Générale du Developpement Regional et Local, the
general directorate for territorial administration in the Recipient’s ministry in
charge of territorial administration and community development, or any successor
thereto.

“DGEF” means Direction Generale des Eaux et Forets, the Recipient’s general
directorate of water and forest in the Recipient’s ministry in charge of
environment, urban sanitation, and sustainable development, or any successor
thereto.

“Displaced Person” means a person who, on account of the execution of an activity
under the Project, has experienced or would experience direct economic and social
impacts caused by: (a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or
loss of shelter, (ii) loss of assets or access to assets, or (iii) loss of income sources
or means of livelihood, whether or not such person must move to another location;
or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and protected
areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such person; “Displaced
Persons” means all such persons.

“EHS Guidelines” means the World Bank Group Environmental, Health and
Safety Guidelines published on www.ifc.org/ehsguidelines, as said guidelines are
updated from time to time.
10.

12.

Es

16.

“Environmental and Social Impact Assessment” or “ESIA” means: the plan to be
prepared and adopted by the Borrower and disclosed in-country and in the World
Bank’s website in accordance with the procedures and requirements of the ESMF,
satisfactory to the World Bank, and setting forth the details of potential
environmental and social risks, including risks of gender-based violence and
sexual exploitation and abuse, and adverse impacts associated with any Project
activities, together with an environmental and social management plan defining
measures to manage such risks and impacts, including measures that endeavor
to prevent and respond to gender-based violence and sexual exploitation and
abuse, and including any schedules to such assessment, as any said plan and/or
instruments may be amended from time to time with the World Bank’s prior
written agreement.

“Environmental and Social Management Framework” or “ESMF” means the
Borrower’s document entitled “Cadre de Gestion Environnementale et Sociale
(CGES)” dated July 2011, prepared for the Project, revised as of March 2019, and
disclosed in country on March 7, 2019 and on the World Bank’s Infoshop on
March 8, 2019, and detailing: (a) the measures to be taken during the
implementation and operation of the Project to eliminate or offset adverse
environmental and social impacts, or to reduce them to acceptable levels; and
(b) the actions needed to implement these measures, including monitoring and
institution strengthening.

“Environmental and Social Management Plan” or “ESMP” means the Borrower’s
document prepared and disclosed in accordance with the Environmental and Social
Management Framework with respect to an activity included under an Annual
Work Plan and Budget, that details: (a) the measures to be taken during the
implementation and operation of such activity to eliminate or offset adverse
environmental or social impacts, or to reduce them to acceptable levels; and (b)
the actions needed to implement these measures.

“Financing Agreement” means the Financing Agreement entered into between the
International Development Association and the Borrower on the same date as this
Agreement for the provision of financing for the Project.

“Maisons du Paysan” means Farmer’s House, an integrated multi-services
platform designed to improve availability, accessibility and the correct use of
certain essential services to improve the performance of family farms and
agricultural enterprises. This platform has been initiated through the 3N Initiative.

“Manuals” means, collectively, the Project Implementation Manual and, the
Manual of Financial, Accounting and Administrative Procedures.

“Manual of Financial, Accounting and Administrative Procedures” means the
document adopted by the Borrower in respect of the Original Project and as
18.

19.

20.

rae

22.

amended through the date hereof, containing guidelines and procedures, in form
and substance satisfactory to the World Bank, including financial, administrative
and accounting procedures applicable to the Project, as such manual may be
amended from time to time with the prior written agreement of the World Bank,
and such term includes any schedule to the Project Manual of Financial,
Accounting and Administrative Procedures.

“Matching Grants” means a grant made or proposed to be made by the Borrower
to a Targeted Commune out of the proceeds of the Financing for the purpose of
financing a Micro-project implemented or to be implemented by the Targeted
Commune, in accordance with the provisions of Section I.B.1 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.

“Matching Grant Agreement” means an agreement between, or intended to be
concluded between, the Borrower and a Targeted Commune, in accordance with
the provisions of Section I.B.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, setting forth the
terms and conditions under which the proceeds of a Matching Grant shall be made
available to the relevant Targeted Commune for the purpose of financing a Micro-
project.

“Micro-project” means one or more specific activities carried out or to be carried
out by a Targeted Commune and financed or proposed to be financed through a
Matching Grant under sub-component 2.1(b) of the Project.

“National Center for Ecological and Environmental Monitoring” means Centre
National de Surveillance Ecologique et Environnementale, created and operating
pursuant to Decree No. 2010-716/PCSRD/MEE/LCD, dated October 21, 2010.

“Operating Costs” means the incremental expenses incurred by the PCU or its
regional representations, the Targeted Communes, the Technical Coordination
Committee, and the Technical Entities including their decentralized services,
based on the Annual Work Plans and Budgets as approved by the World Bank, on
account of Project implementation, management, and monitoring and evaluation,
including the reasonable costs for utilities and supplies, bank charges,
communications, vehicle operation, maintenance, and insurance, office space
rental, building and equipment maintenance, public awareness-related media
expenses, travel and supervision, and salaries of contractual and temporary staff,
but excluding salaries, fees, honoraria, and bonuses of members of the Borrower’s
civil service.

“Original Financing Agreements” means: (a) the Strategic Climate Fund — Pilot
Program for Climate Resilience Grant Agreement, dated February 9, 2012,
between the Republic of Niger and the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development acting as implementing entity of the Pilot Program for Climate
Resilience under the Strategic Climate Fund (Grant Agreement for TF011426);
24.

ons

26.

ahs

28.

29

and (b) the Strategic Climate Fund — Pilot Program for Climate Resilience Loan
Agreement, of the same date, between the Republic of Niger and the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development acting as implementing entity of the
Pilot Program for Climate Resilience under the Strategic Climate Fund (Loan
Agreement for TF011338), all, as amended to the date hereof.

“Original Project” means the Project described in Schedule 1 to the Original
Financing Agreements.

“PCU” means the project coordinating unit established under the Recipient’s
ministry responsible for planning, territorial administration and community
development, with attribution, composition and resources acceptable to the World
Bank for the purpose of, inter alia, coordinating the implementation of the Project
activities.

“PPCR Design Document” is the design for the Pilot Program for Climate
Resilience, approved by the Strategic Climate Fund Trust Fund Committee and
issued on November 18, 2008, and as said design may be amended from time to
time in accordance with its terms.

“Pilot Program for Climate Resilience” or “PPCR” means the program established
under the Strategic Climate Fund in accordance with the Governance Framework
for the Strategic Climate Fund for the purposes set forth in the PPCR Design
Document.

“Procurement Regulations” means, for purposes of paragraph 87 of the Appendix
to the General Conditions, the “World Bank Procurement Regulations for IPF
Borrowers”, dated July 2016, revised November 2017 and August 2018.

“Project Implementation Manual” means the document adopted by the Borrower
in respect of the Original Project and as amended through the date hereof,
containing guidelines and procedures, in form and substance satisfactory to the
World Bank, and used for the purpose of implementing the Project, including in
the areas of monitoring and evaluation, coordination, social and environmental
safeguards, and other provisions related to the institutional organization, as such
guidelines and procedures may be amended from time to time with the prior written
agreement of the World Bank, and such term includes any schedule to the Project
Implementation Manual.

“Resettlement Action Plan” or “RAP” means the Borrower’s document prepared
and disclosed in accordance with the Resettlement Policy Framework with respect
to an activity included under an Annual Work Plan and Budget, which, inter alia:
(i) contains a census survey of Displaced Persons and valuation of their assets; (ii)
describes compensation and other resettlement assistance to be provided,
consultation to be conducted with Displaced Persons about acceptable alternatives,
30.

Ds

34.

aa

36.

institutional responsibilities for the implementation and procedures for grievance
redress, and arrangements for monitoring and evaluation; and (iii) contains a
timetable and budget for the implementation of such measures.

“Resettlement Policy Framework” or “RPF” means the Borrower’s document
entitled “Cadre de Politique de Réinstallation des Populations” dated June 2011
and revised as of March 2019, and disclosed in country on March 7, 2019, and on
the World Bank’s Infoshop on March 8, 2019, prepared for the Project, and
containing guidelines, procedures, timetables and other specifications for the
provision of compensation, rehabilitation and resettlement assistance to Displaced
Persons.

“Safeguard Documents” means, collectively, the Environmental and Social
Management Framework, the Resettlement Policy Framework, as well as the
Environmental and Social Management Plans and the Resettlement Action Plans
prepared for specific activities carried out under the Project, if any.

“Safeguards Policies” means, the Operational Policies (OPs) and Bank Procedures
(BPs) of the World Bank, namely OP/BP 4.01 (Environmental Assessment),
OP/BP 4.04 (Natural Habitats), OP/BP 4.09 (Pest Management), OP/BP 4.10
(Indigenous Peoples), OP/BP 4.11 (Physical Cultural Resources), OP/BP 4.12
(Involuntary Resettlement), OP/BP 4.36 (Forests), and OP/BP 4.37 (Safety of
Dams) as published at https:// olicies.worldbank.org and as the same may be
updated by the World Bank from time to time.

“SPCR” means the Borrower’s Strategic Program for Climate Resilience of
November 2010.

“Standard Conditions” means the Standard Conditions for Loans Made by the
World Bank Out of the Climate Investment Funds, dated February 18, 2014.

“Steering Committee” means the Borrower’s committee entitled “Comité de
Pilotage du PACKC”, established by and operating under the Borrower’s
ministerial resolution (Arrete)No. 0104/M EF/DGIN dated March 1, 2016, or such
other committee, with attributions, composition and resources satisfactory to the
World Bank, as shall have been previously agreed in writing by the World Bank,
and referred to in Section I.A.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Strategic Coordination Unit” means the unit under the Recipient’s ministry in
charge of planning established by the Borrower in respect of the Original Project
and referred to in Section I.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, in charge of
coordination of the Recipient’s SPCR, which was defined as PPCR Coordination
Unit under the Original Financing Agreements.
Si

39.

40.

“Targeted Communes” means, collectively, communes established on the
Borrower’s territory each with its own local government in accordance with the
Borrower’s Law no. 2002-014 of June 11, 2002, selected in a manner satisfactory
to the World Bank on the basis of, inter alia, the level of development of local
planning and budgeting tools for the implementation of the Borrower’s
decentralization policy, for the purpose of carrying out Project activities.

“Technical Coordination Committee” means the committee established by the
Borrower in respect of the Original Project and referred to in Section I.A.4 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Technical Entity” means, the entity responsible for the technical implementation
of the activities included in the sub-component 2.1 of the Project as described in
Section I.A.5 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, or any other entity selected by the
Borrower and acceptable to the World Bank.

“Training” means the reasonable cost of training under the Project, based on
Annual Work Plans and Budgets, including costs associated with seminars,
workshops, conference and study tours, travel and subsistence costs for training
participants, services of trainers, rental of training facilities, preparation and
reproduction of training materials and other activities directly related to course
preparation and implementation.
