Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

 

 

LOAN NUMBER 8907-LK

Loan Agreement

(Framework Development and Infrastructure Financing to Support Public Private
Partnerships Project)

between
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA (‘Borrower’) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”). The Borrower and the Bank hereby
agree as follows:

WHEREAS (A) The Borrower requested support from the Bank to develop a

framework to support public private partnerships. The Bank has agreed to extend support in the
following manner:

(i) the Public-Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility, a multi-donor technical

assistance facility financed by multilateral and bilateral donors and managed by the Bank,
extended a grant to facilitate the execution by the Bank of a series of preparatory activities
on which the Project (as defined in this Agreement) is building, such as the provision of
recommendations and capacity building activities on: the PPP legal and regulatory
framework (including PPP related guidelines, and PPP unit organization, staffing and
knowledge building and management); the development of tools for the preparation of
PPP transactions; the design of criteria for the prioritization of possible PPP transactions
and tools for the assessment of their level of readiness, such as outline business cases; and

(ii) the Bank has agreed to extend a loan from its own resources to the Borrower in an

amount and under terms and conditions as described in this Agreement to facilitate the
execution by the Borrower of the Project (as defined in this Agreement). For the sake of
clarity: (i) none of the activities carried out under the Project shall be implemented by the
Bank; and (ii) the Bank shall have no obligation to monitor any activity not included in
the Project, such as for instance the implementation of any PPP transaction for the
preparation of which services were provided under Part B of the Project.

NOW, THEREFORE, the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:

1.01.

1.02.

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to and form
part of this Agreement.

Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
2.01.

m2.

2.03.

2.04.

2.05.

2.06.

2.07.

3.01.

4.01.

ARTICLE II — LOAN

The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of twenty-five million Dollars
($25,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency
Conversion (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement (“Project’’).

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section III of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.

The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.

The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Variable Spread or such rate as may apply
following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General Conditions.

The Payment Dates are May15 and November 15 in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.

ARTICLE II — PROJECT

The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the Signature Date.
ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. The Borrower’s Representative is its Secretary, Ministry of Finance and Mass Media.
5.02. For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Borrower’s address is:

Department of External Resources

The Secretariat

Colombo 1, Sri Lanka

(b) the Borrower’s Electronic Address is:

Facsimile: E-mail:

94 11 2447633 dg@erd.gov.lk

5.03. For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Bank’s address is:

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America; and
(b) the Bank’s Electronic Address is: —

Telex: Facsimile: E-mail:

248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391 CD-SLMV @worldbank.org
64145(MCI)
AGREED as of the Signature Date.

DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

By: |
6°

Authorized Representative
Name: K: 1° S- SQ Maral UNGOL
Title: Cocy elo Y to Ho Vy PAS urYy

Date: ral l XO\

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT

By:

 

Authorized Representative

Name: Harytw ig Me hafer

Title: Vee. Presideytt
Date: Apy i\ \\ X01 9
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description

The objective of the Project is to support the preparation of Public-Private Partnerships that
will enable the Government of Sri Lanka to facilitate private sector financing for the development
of its priority infrastructure and services.

The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A: Improving the Enabling Environment
A.1: Establishing the Institutional Environment for Sustainability of PPPs

Carrying out the following activities to improve and strengthen the Borrower’s enabling
environment for PPPs:

(a) strengthening and institutionalizing NAPPP;

(b) establishing institutional arrangements for the provision of long-term infrastructure
financing for PPPs and funding of the preparation of proposed PPP transactions, with a
focus on addressing identified weaknesses in the infrastructure finance sphere;

(c) establishing mechanisms to channel public funding to improve financial viability of PPPs
(viability gap funding);

(d) | developing principles for the assessment of direct and contingent liabilities arising from
PPPs; and

(e) establishing and strengthening other key institutions which would contribute to the

successful implementation of the Borrower’s PPP program (such as the establishment of
PPP nodes in line agencies), and establishment or strengthening of institutions critical in
enhancing the enabling environment (such as a procurement appeal committee and an
arbitration mechanism). |

A.2: PPP Capacity Building

Carrying out capacity building and training activities relevant to PPPs and the
implementation of the Borrower’s PPP program, targeting the following audience:

(a) NAPPP’s staff and consultants;
(b)

(c)

Borrower’s government agencies, including its MoFMM, its Attorney General Department
and its National Planning Department, agencies currently involved in the preparation or
implementation of PPP transactions, decision making bodies (particularly the negotiating
committees appointed by the Borrower’s cabinet for the negotiation of each Proposed PPP
Transaction); as well as other Borrower’s government staff at central and provincial levels;
and

local private sector and banking industry.
A.3: Communication and Stakeholder Engagement for PPP

Carrying out the following activities to strengthen the engagement of stakeholders and

citizens to support the Borrower’s PPP program:

(a)

(b)

developing and implementing NAPPP’s communication strategy; and

organizing roundtables and consultations with representatives of the private sector and
other stakeholders.

Part B: Preparation of Selected Prioritized Proposed PPP Transactions

B.1: Feasibility Studies

Carrying out of feasibility studies for selected Prioritized Proposed PPP Transactions,

covering due diligence of all aspects of the Proposed PPP Transaction, including:

(a)

(b)

(c)

its technical, legal, economic, and financial feasibility (technical scoping, concept design,
economic and financial analysis including value for money analysis);

other assessments as relevant to such Proposed PPP Transactions (such as gender analysis,
traffic surveys and willingness-to-pay surveys; mechanisms for citizens engagement,
grievance redress and management of labor influx; as well as environment and social
assessments (although they will be carried out independently of the feasibility study); and

the provision of technical assistance to agencies where policy or strategic decisions are
needed prior to initiating PPPs, including with respect to potential new areas for PPPs, such
as financial services, logistics, shipping, aviation and tourism. |
B.2: Project Structuring and Transaction Advisory Services

Provision of policy, transaction, legal and financial advisory support for the structuring of
one or more selected Prioritized Proposed PPP Transactions (whose technical feasibility has
already been confirmed through acceptable feasibility studies), preparation of the procurement
documentation and negotiations of the contractual arrangement with the selected bidder, up to
financial close, including:

(a) market sounding, design of risk allocation matrix, financial modelling, preparation of the
project documents (concession and other agreements) for the Proposed PPP Transaction;

(b) provision of professional and experienced skills to support negotiations with the selected
bidder and financiers to, inter alia, increase value for money, up to financial close; and

(c) provision of technical advice related to fiscal impact of the Proposed PPP Transactions and
for the assessment of the Borrower’s direct and contingent liabilities related to such
transaction and, where necessary, structuring of risk mitigation instruments to improve
bankability.

Part C: Project Management

Provision of operational support to NAPPP for the management of the Borrower’s PPP
program, such as equipment, goods and services, for its day to day operation in general, including
Project coordination, management, reporting and monitoring and evaluation.
SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Section I. Implementation Arrangements

A.

Institutional Arrangements

The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, the following implementation
arrangements throughout the implementation of the Project.

(a)

(b)

(c)

Board of Directors.

The Borrower has established and shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, the Board of
Directors with terms of reference, composition and resources satisfactory to capably, inter
alia, provide overall direction and strategic guidance to NAPPP and carry out monitoring
and evaluation of the Project (in addition to the monitoring of the Proposed PPP
Transactions supported by NAPPP).

NAPPP.

The Borrower has established and shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, NAPPP with
terms of reference, composition and resources satisfactory to the Bank to, inter alia,
provide support to other government’s agencies for the identification, preparation,
evaluation, negotiations and award of their Proposed PPP Transactions supported under
the Project.

The Borrower is in the process of restructuring NAPPP, which restructuring is expected to
include its incorporation as a legal entity distinct from the Borrower and the conversion of
the Board of Directors into the new legal entity’s board of directors. The Bank confirms
that the incorporation of NAPPP is acceptable in principle, taking into consideration the
Bank’s views on any potential adverse impact of the specific terms and conditions of such
incorporation on the implementation of the Project and the achievement of its development
objective.

Without limitation to the generality of the provisions in paragraph 2(a) immediately above:

(i) in addition to strengthening NAPPP’s work force (through staff and consultants)
as part of the Project, the Borrower shall assign staff from the Borrower’s Ministry
of Finance and Mass Media and/or recruit, or cause to be recruited, staff and
consultants as needed, in adequate number and each with terms of reference,
qualifications and experience also acceptable to the Bank to, inter alia, provide
overall coordination of the activities in the Project, including a team of dedicated
staff responsible for procurement and management of the consultant services,
financial management, monitoring and evaluation, reporting, and compliance with
environmental and social safeguards requirement;

(ii) without limitation to the generality of the foregoing provisions in paragraph (c)(i)
immediately above, among the staff listed in paragraph (c)(i) immediately above,
the Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, a small team of focal points
who will act as interface to the Bank for the Project supervision and monitoring by
the Bank (thereafter collectively referred to as the “Project Team”). The Project
Team shall include: a Procurement Specialist, a Financial Management Specialist,
an Environmental Specialist and a Social Specialist.

(iii) | without limitation to the generality of the foregoing provisions in paragraph (c)(ii)
immediately above, it is acknowledged that the Borrower has already assigned
staff or recruited consultants for procurement and management of the consultant
services, as well as financial management, as members of the Project Team. The
Borrower shall, no later than one (1) month after the Effective Date, assign staff or
recruit consultants for monitoring and evaluation, reporting, and compliance with
environmental and social safeguards requirement.

Arrangements Specific to the Implementation of Proposed PPP Transactions Not Part of
the Project Implementation Arrangement.

For the avoidance of doubt, any implementation arrangements which may be established
by the Borrower (through its relevant line ministry or otherwise) for the purpose of
monitoring the implementation (as opposed to monitoring the preparation) of Proposed
PPP Transactions, whose preparation has been supported under Part B of the Project, are
not part of the implementation arrangement for the Project.

Safeguards

The Borrower shall ensure, or cause NAPPP to ensure, that all terms of reference for any
technical assistance or studies carried out under the Project are consistent with, and pay
due attention to, the Bank Policies, as well as the Borrower’s own laws relating to the
environment and social aspects relevant to the Project.

Prior to the inclusion of a Proposed PPP Transaction for preparation under Part B of the
Project, the Borrower shall carry out the screening process described in the Safeguard
Documents for potential social and environmental impact to identify/define: (a) the Bank
Policies triggered by such Proposed PPP Transaction; (b) its environmental category under
Bank Policies; (c) the safeguard instruments to be prepared during preparation of
engineering designs for the Proposed PPP Transaction; as well as (d) the consultation and
disclosure requirements. No Proposed PPP Transaction of a type which would have
(b)

-10-

otherwise triggered the Bank Policy OP 4.37 (Safety of Dams) may be included in the
Project.

The Borrower shall ensure that the Project shall be implemented in accordance with the
guidelines, procedures, timetables and other specifications set forth in the Safeguard
Documents. In particular, the Borrower shall ensure that:

(a) for each activity under the Project of a type for which the Environmental
Assessment and Management Framework provides that an Environmental and
Social Management Plan should be prepared, a draft of such Environmental and
Social Management Plan, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, is
effectively prepared and locally disclosed, in accordance with the provisions of the
Environmental Assessment and Management Framework;

for each activity under the Project of a type for which the Resettlement Policy Framework
provides that a Resettlement Action Plan should be prepared, a draft of such Resettlement
Action Plan, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, is effectively prepared and
locally disclosed, in accordance with the provisions of the Resettlement Policy Framework.

The Borrower shall ensure that each Proposed PPP Transaction included in Sub-Part B.1
of the Project is designed, and each Proposed PPP Transaction included in Sub-Part B.2 of
the Project is designed, procured and negotiated, in each case in a manner which is
consistent with and pays due attention to the requirements of the Bank Policies. Without
limitation to the generality of the foregoing provision, any contracts for civil works under
any such Proposed PPP Transaction shall include codes of conduct in form and substance
acceptable to the Bank, detailing measures on environment, health and safety and
preventing and responding to HIV/AIDS, gender-based violence, and violence against
children. For purpose of clarification, the Borrower shall have no obligation to the Bank,
pursuant to this Agreement, to ensure compliance with Bank Policies with respect to the
physical implementation of any Proposed PPP Transaction.

Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree in writing and subject to compliance with
applicable consultation and public disclosure requirements of the Bank, the Borrower shall
not abrogate, amend, repeal, suspend or waive any provisions of any of the Safeguard
Documents, nor permit any entity participating in the implementation of the Project to do
sO.

Without limitation upon its other reporting obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower
shall cause NAPPP to regularly collect, compile and submit to the Bank, on a semi-annual
basis and promptly in a separate report whenever the circumstances warrant, reports on the
status of compliance with the Safeguard Documents, giving details of: (a) measures taken
in furtherance of the Safeguard Documents; (b) conditions, if any, which interfere or
threaten to interfere with the smooth implementation of the Safeguard Documents; and
(c) remedial measures taken or required to be taken to address such conditions.
-ll-

The Borrower shall maintain and operate throughout the period of Project implementation,
a grievance redress mechanism for the handling of any stakeholder complaints arising out
of the implementation of the Project activities.

If any provision of the Safeguard Documents shall conflict with any provision under this
Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.

Counterpart Funds

Without limitation to the provisions of Section 5.03 of the General Conditions, the
Borrower shall provide an amount of not less than the equivalent of two million Dollars
($2,000,000) as counterpart funds for the Project (“Counterpart Funds”) for the purpose of
financing NAPPP salaries. |

Project Operations Manual

No later than one (1) month after the Effective Date, the Borrower shall, or shall cause
NAPPP to, prepare and adopt the Project Operations Manual, and ensure that the Project
Operations Manual will be at all time -at adoption and during Project implementation- in
form and substance acceptable to the Bank.

The Project Operations Manual shall set forth:

(a) (i) the detailed description of Project activities and their implementation, their
sequencing and the prospective timetable and benchmarks in relation thereto; and
(ii) the detailed institutional arrangements in respect thereto, including allocation
of responsibilities, required staff and minimum qualifications thereof;

(b) the administrative, accounting, auditing, internal control, reporting, financial,
procurement and disbursement (flow of funds) procedures for the Project, which
procedures shall be consistent with those included or referred to in this Agreement;

(c) (i) the procedural steps for the updating of the Procurement Plan; and (ii) an outline °
of the mechanism for the settlement of procurement complaints and the disclosure
of critical procurement information (website maintenance);

(d) the guidelines for training and capacity building activities under the Project;

(e) the plan for monitoring and supervision of Project activities, including all
technical, environmental and social aspects in relation thereto;
(f)

(g)

(a)

(b)

-12-

a detailed description of NAPPP’s tool for the selection and prioritization Proposed
PPP Transactions, which includes screening criteria, a scoring process and, as the
case may be, the development of outline business cases (with instructions on when
outline business cases are needed or not); and

a description of the Borrower’s process for the inclusion of Proposed PPP
Transactions in the Project, which will include the Borrower’s obligation to ensure,
through its relevant line ministry, that with respect to each Proposed PPP
Transaction, each of the Board of Directors of NAPPP and the Cabinet of Ministers
has approved the estimated costs (at the time of such approval) involved in the
entire procurement cycle from pre-feasibility to signing of the project agreements
and financial closure of the Proposed PPP Transaction, including estimated costs/
budgets for local and international specialist consultants (technical, legal,
financial, etc.) and other management costs as considered to be essential for the
Proposed PPP Transaction.

The Borrower shall, or shall cause NAPPP to, ensure that the Project is carried out
in accordance with the Project Operations Manual.

The Borrower shall not, and shall cause NAPPP not to, assign, amend, abrogate,
or waive the Project Operations Manual, or any provision thereof in a manner
which, in the views of the Bank, may adversely impact the implementation of the

Project or the achievement of its objectives.

In the event of any conflict between the provisions of the Project Operations Manual and
those of this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.

Annual Work Plans and Budgets

Each year, the Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared:

(a)

(b)

a draft annual work plan (listing eligible activities to be implemented during the
relevant year, including Training and Incremental Operating Costs) and budget
(with a financial plan specifying all sources of financing including the Loan,
Counterpart Funds and any other resources provided by the Borrower, including
related cash forecasts, cash flows and disbursement projections) for the next
calendar year of Project implementation (together with global budget estimates for
the calendar year following the one covered by the Annual Work Plan and Budget),
of such scope and detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested;

the evidence, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, that each of the
activities to be included under Part B of the Project relates to a Proposed PPP
Transaction which has been Prioritized; and
as 1%

(c) the evidence, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, that: (i) all safeguard
related screening activity to be carried out in accordance with the Safeguard
Documents or this Agreement prior to the inclusion of the proposed activities in
the draft annual work plan and budget, if any, have been carried out; and (ii) any
instrument to be prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Safeguard
Documents, prior to or during the implementation of the activities included in the
draft annual work plan and budget, if any, have been prepared or are in the process
of being prepared in a manner which ensures that they will be available in form
and substance acceptable to the Bank and prepared and disclosed in accordance
with the Bank Policies (including time-wise).

The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, as soon as available, but not later than October
15" of each year, a draft annual work plan and budget for the subsequent year for the
Bank’s agreement, prior to its finalization by the Borrower; except for the draft annual
work plan and budget for the Project for the first year of Project implementation which
shall be furnished to the Bank no later than one (1) month after the Effective Date.

The Borrower shall ensure that, each year, once the draft annual work plan and budget will
be acceptable to and will have been approved by the Bank (an “Annual Work Plan and
Budget”), the Project is carried out in accordance with such Annual Work Plan and Budget.

Only activities included in an Annual Work Plan and Budget will be eligible to be included
in the Project. Annual Work Plans and Budgets may be revised as needed during Project
implementation subject to the Bank’s prior approval.

Training shall be carried out based on Annual Work Plans and Budgets, which shall, inter
alia, identify: (a) particulars of the training envisaged; (b) the personnel to be trained;
(c) the selection method of the institution or individuals conducting such training; (d) the
institution conducting such training if identified; (e) the purpose and justification for such
training; (f) the location and duration of the proposed training; and (g) the estimate of the
cost of such training.

Section II. Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank each Project Report not later than forty-five (45)
days after the end of each calendar quarter, covering the calendar quarter.

The Borrower shall:

(a) not later than thirty (30) months after the Effective Date, or such other date as may
be agreed with the Bank, carry out jointly with the Bank, a midterm review of the
Project, to assess the status of Project implementation, as measured against the
indicators acceptable to the Bank and listed in the Project Operations Manual, and
(b)

(c)

-14-

the legal covenants included in this Agreement. Such review shall include an
assessment of the following: (i) overall progress in implementation; (ii) results of
monitoring and evaluation activities; (iii) progress on procurement and
disbursement; (iv) compliance with Safeguard Documents; (v) implementation
arrangements and Project staff turnover; and (vi) the need to make any adjustments
to the Project to improve performance;

to this end, prepare and furnish to the Bank, not later than one (1) month before
such review, a report, in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank and integrating
the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to
Part 2(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project
during the period preceding the date of such report and setting out the measures
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the
achievement of the objective thereof during the period following such date; and

review jointly with the Bank the report referred to in the preceding paragraph and
thereafter take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the
Project and the achievement of the objective thereof, based on the conclusions and
recommendations of such report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
-15-

Section III. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A, General.

Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and in
accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the Borrower may
withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to: (a) finance Eligible Expenditures; (b) repay the
Preparation Advance; and (c) pay: (i) the Front-end Fee; and (ii) each Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar premium; in the amount allocated and, if applicable, up to the
percentage set forth against each Category of the following table:

Amount of the Loan
Allocated
ressed in USD)

       
   
  

    
    

Category

  
  
     
 
     
 

Percentage of Expenditures
to be Financed
(inclusive of Taxes)

  

(ex

   

(1) Goods, non-consulting
services, and consulting
services, Incremental
Operating Costs and Training
for the Project

(2) Refund of the Preparation
Advance 600,000

(3) Front-end Fee

   

24,337,500 100%

   
  
   
    
   

 
  
 

  
    

Amount payable pursuant to
Section 2.07 (a) of the General
Conditions
Amount payable pursuant to
Section 2.03 of _ this
Agreement in accordance with
Section 2.07 (b) of the General
Conditions
Amount due pursuant to
Section 4.05 (c) of the General
Conditions

  
   

   
        

62,500

      

   
 

   
     
 

 

(4) Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar premium

  

      

  

TOTAL AMOUNT 25,000,000
B. Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.
l. Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A above, no withdrawal shall be made for payments

made prior to the Signature Date.

2. The Closing Date is February 28, 2024.
-16-

SCHEDULE 3
Commitment-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage of the
total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date (“Installment Share”).

Level Principal Repayments

Principal Payment Date Installment Share
On each May 15 and November 15 .
Beginning May 15, 2028 through May 15, 2038 4.55%

On November 15, 2038 4.45%

     
    
 

     
-17-

APPENDIX
Definitions

“Annual Work Plan and Budget” means, individually, one of the annual work plans and
budgets for the implementation of the Project reviewed and approved by the Bank, referred
to in Section I.E.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and ““Annual Work Plans and Budgets”
means, collectively, all such annual work plans and budgets.

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and Corruption
in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006
and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.

“Bank Policies” means, collectively, but only to the extent that they are applicable to the
Project activities, the operational policies and procedures OP/BP 4.01 (Environmental
Assessment), OP/BP 4.03 (Performance Standards for Private Sector Activities), OP/BP
4.04 (Natural Habitats), OP/BP 4.07 (Water Resources Management), OP/BP 4.09 (Pest
Management), OP/BP 4.10 (Indigenous Peoples), OP/BP 4.11 (Physical Cultural
Resources), OP/BP 4.12 (Involuntary Resettlement), OP/BP 4.36 (Forests), and OP/BP
4.37 (Safety of Dams) contained in the Bank’s Operational Manual which can be found on
the Bank’s website at www.worldbank.org; and “Bank Policy” means one of the Bank
Policies, as the context may require.

“Board of Directors” means the board established by the Borrower within its Ministry of
Finance and Mass Media by a decision of the Cabinet of Ministers on July 11, 2017 further
to a cabinet memorandum dated July 3, 2017, or any successor to the Board of Directors,
which the Bank will have previously confirmed in writing, meets the requirements of
Section I.A.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section III.A of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement. |

“Counterpart Funds” means funds provided or to be provided by the Borrower in
accordance with Section I.C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Displaced Persons” means persons who, on account of the execution of a Proposed PPP
Transaction supported or to be supported under the Project, have experienced or would
experience direct economic and social impacts caused by Involuntary Resettlement.

“Environmental Assessment and Management Framework” means the Borrower’s
document entitled “Framework Development and Infrastructure Financing to Support
Public Private Partnerships — Environmental Assessment and Management Framework
‘10.

11.

LZ.

13.

14.

-18-

(EAMF)” dated July 24, 2018, which sets forth, inter alia, baseline conditions, potential
impact assessment and mitigation measures as well as a resettlement policy framework and
guidelines and procedures for the determination of the entitlement for compensation and
calculation of compensation payments, and preparation of resettlement action plans for the
Proposed PPP Transactions supported or to be supported under the Project; as such
framework may be revised, updated or supplemented in accordance with the provisions of
Section I.B.5 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and such term includes any annexes,
appendices, or schedules to such framework.

“Environmental and Social Management Plan” means a plan which may be prepared by
the Borrower or on its behalf in accordance with the provisions of the Environmental and
Social Management Framework, if any; and such term includes any annexes, appendices,
or schedules to such plan.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project Financing”, dated
July 14, 2017.

“Incremental Operating Costs” means the incremental operating costs of the Project,
considered to be reasonable by the Bank and included in an Annual Work Plan and Budget,
incurred by NAPPP for purposes of Project management, implementation, and monitoring
and evaluation on account of office supplies and consumables, utilities, bank charges,
communications, mass media and printing services, vehicle rental, operation, maintenance,
and insurance, office space rental, building and equipment maintenance, domestic and
international travel, lodging, and subsistence allowances, and salaries and salary
supplements of contractual and temporary staff, but excluding salaries, salary supplements
and overheads of members of the Borrower’s civil service.

“Involuntary Resettlement” means the following caused on account of the implementation
of a Proposed PPP Transaction supported under the Project: (a) the involuntary taking of
land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or
(111) loss of income sources or means of livelihood, whether or not the affected person must
move to another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated
parks and protected areas resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of the affected
person.

“Ministry of Finance and Mass Media” and the acronym “MoFMM” mean the Borrower’s
Ministry of Finance and Mass Media, or any successor thereto at the time responsible for
finance.

‘““NAPPP” means the National Agency for Public-Private Partnerships established by the
Borrower within its Ministry of Finance and Mass Media by a decision of the Cabinet of
Ministers on July 11, 2017 further to a cabinet memorandum dated July 3, 2017, or any
15.

16.

17.

18.

Ly.

20.

Ms

22.

-19-

successor to NAPPP, which the Bank will have previously confirmed in writing, is
acceptable for the purpose of the Project.

“PPP” means Public Private Partnership, which covers any contractual arrangement
between a public entity or authority and a private entity, for providing a public asset or
service, in which the private party bears significant investment, risk and management
responsibility. For the sake of illustration, at the express request of the Borrower, “PPP”
could refer, for instance, to green field investments and other contractual arrangements
designed to increase the viability of state-owned entities, with a view to transferring/ leasing
their physical assets or resources, generating new revenue streams, and creating fiscal
benefits. However, operations pursuant to which the Borrower would divest its
shareholding in a state-owned entity are expressly excluded.

“Preparation Advance” means the portion of programmatic preparation advance no. P4910,
referred to in Section 2.07 (a) of the General Conditions, granted by the Bank to the
Borrower pursuant to the letter agreement signed on behalf of the Bank on January 26,
2018 and on behalf of the Borrower on January 30, 2018.

“Prioritized” when referring to a Proposed PPP Transaction, means a Proposed PPP
Transaction (i) that has been prioritized as a result of the application of NAPPP’s selection
and prioritization tool, which is further described in the Project Operations Manual; or
(ii) that has been selected and prioritized through other means which the Bank, in its sole
discretion, finds acceptable for the purpose of the Project.

“Procurement Regulations” means, for purposes of paragraph 85 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the “World Bank Procurement Regulations for IPF Borrowers”, dated
July 2016, revised November 2017.

“Project Operations Manual” means the Borrower’s manual to be developed and adopted
in accordance with the provisions of Section I.D.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; as the
same may be modified from time to time in accordance with such provisions, and such
term includes any annexes, appendices, or schedules to such manual.

“Project Team” means, collectively, the group of staff and/or consultants referred to in
Section I.A.2(c)(ii) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Proposed PPP Transaction” means a transaction for the provision of a public infrastructure
asset or a public service which the Borrower proposes to structure as a PPP.

“Resettlement Action Plan” means a document which may be prepared or caused to be
prepared by the Borrower with respect to specific activities under the Project in accordance
with the provisions of the Resettlement Policy Framework, identifying Displaced Persons
on account of implementation of activities included in a Proposed PPP Transaction
25.

24.

pas

26.

27.

46 -.

supported under the Project, and setting forth the terms and conditions for providing them
with resettlement assistance and/or compensation, as well as the procedures to be applied
in the identification, assessment and mitigation of social impacts related to the
implementation of a Proposed PPP Transaction supported under the Project, including the
protocols for consultation, the processing of complaints and grievance redress, monitoring
and reporting requirements, and the Displaced Persons’ entitlement schedules; and
“Resettlement Action Plan” includes all attachment and annexes thereto.

“Resettlement Policy Framework” means the Borrower’s document entitled “Framework
Development and Infrastructure Financing to Support Public Private Partnerships -
Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF)” dated July 24, 2018, containing guidelines,
procedures, timetables and other specifications for the provision of compensation,
rehabilitation and resettlement assistance to Displaced Persons, including a budget and a
grievance redress mechanism; as such framework may be revised, updated or
supplemented in accordance with the provisions of Section I.B.5 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement; and “Resettlement Policy Framework” includes all attachment and annexes
thereto.

“Safeguard Documents” means collectively, the Environmental Assessment and
Management Framework and the Resettlement Policy Framework.

“Signature Date” means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the Bank
signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to “the date of the Loan
Agreement” in the General Conditions.

“Sri Lanka’”’ means the Borrower.

“Training” means the reasonable costs of training under the Project, based on the Annual
Work Plans and Budgets, and attributable to seminars, workshops, and study tours, along
with domestic and international travel and subsistence allowances for training participants,
services of trainers, rental of training facilities, preparation and reproduction of training
materials, and other activities directly related to course preparation and implementation.
