Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

( LL ESE A
‘isl IGIAL

MOOCTLINAT AT
DOCUMENTS

Bb a8
_ = .

 

 

LOAN NUMBER 8997-EG

Loan Agreement

(Additional Financing for Strengthening Social Safety Net Project)
between
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
LOAN NUMBER 8997-EG
LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between the ARAB REPUBLIC
OF EGYPT (‘Borrower’) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK ~ FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”). The Borrower and the Bank
hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01. The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to
and form part of this Agreement.

1.02. Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.

ARTICLE II — LOAN

2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of five hundred million
Dollars (USD 500,000,000) as such amount may be converted from time to time
through a Currency Conversion (“Loan’’), to assist in financing the project
described in Schedule | to this Agreement (‘‘Project”’).

2.02. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower’s representative for
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this
Section is the Ministry of Social Solidarity.

2.03. The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.

2.04. The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.

2.05. The interest payable by the Borrower on the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and the amount outstanding from time to time for each Interest Period
shall be at a rate equal to the Reference Rate (as defined in the Appendix to the
General Conditions) for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided,
that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such
amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article
IV of the General Conditions.

2.06. The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year.
£01,

2.08.

251.

4.01.

4.02.

5.01.

5.02.

a Fw

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3
to this Agreement.

The Borrower represents that it has designated its Ministry of Finance for the
purpose of handling, on behalf of the Borrower, debt service payments with
respect to the Loan.

ARTICLE II — PROJECT

The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through the Ministry of Social
Solidarity (“MOSS”) in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

Subject to the other provisions of this Article and Section 9.01 of the General
Conditions, this Agreement shall become effective once the Bank has received
evidence that all necessary constitutional procedures have been taken by the
Borrower.

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred eighty (180) days after the
Signature Date or such date as the Bank may establish in accordance with the
provisions of Section 9.04 of the General Conditions.

ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

The Borrower’s Representative is its minister responsible for investment and
international cooperation.

For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:

(a) the Borrower’s address is:
Ministry of Investment and International Cooperation
8 Adly Street
Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt

Cable address: Facsimile:

Ministry of International Cooperation (202) 2391-2815
Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt (202) 2391-5167
 

a3.

a Hs

For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:

(a)

(b)

the Bank’s address is:

 

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America; and

the Bank’s Electronic Address is:

Telex: Facsimile:

248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)

 

 
vols:

AGREED as of the Signature Date.

ARAB REPULIC OF EGYPT

By:

   

Autforized Representative

Name: i onou ) QA
Title: Minister et Snvert mend & Ditewahlorad
Ceo

pouoton
Date: =e¢l ember ‘Wy 2QO\4

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION

AND DEVELOPMENT
/
#

Authorized Representative

By:

   

Name: Mar) \W Qs

 

 
_5-

SCHEDULE 1
Project Description

The objectives of the Project are to support the Borrower to establish an efficient

and effective Takaful and Karama Cash Transfer Program and improve access to
economic opportunities.

The Project consists of the Original Project, as modified below:

Part A: Provision of Conditional and Unconditional Cash Transfers

Supporting the provision of conditional and unconditional Cash Transfers to
Beneficiaries under the Borrower’s Takaful and Karama Cash Transfer Program.

Part B: Support of Social Safety Nets Targeting and Operational Systems

lL.

Enhancing the targeting and operational systems of the Takaful and Karama Cash
Transfer Program, through, inter alia: (1) improving the systems and business
process of said program, including for case management, payment delivery and
communications} (ii) improving the administrative infrastructure and operational
support of relevant units under the MOSS; (iii) providing Training for relevant
MOSS staff and other relevant officials of the Borrower to carry out the Takaful
and Karama Cash Transfer Program; (iv) monitoring of the Takaful and Karama
Cash Transfer Program, including strengthening the Grievance Redress
Mechanism and citizen engagement activities; and (v) reassessment of eligibility
criteria for Beneficiaries as well as assessment and recertification processes of
new applicants.

Zz. Expanding the Karama Program, through: (i) roll out of a national Karama
disability plan; (ii) institutional capacity building to develop enhancement
disability assessment tools and registration data; (iii) provision of Training to
selected medical professionals; and (iv) linking Karama Program’s grievance
redress mechanism to the TKP’s MIS.

Part C: Project Management and Monitoring and Evaluation

Supporting Project management and implementation activities, through:
(1) carrying out of Project monitoring, regular internal audits, annual external
audits and annual independent verification of the Cash Transfers; (2) maintaining
the PIU and supporting the operational and implementation capacity of the PIU
staff; and (3) undertaking independent targeting, process and impact evaluations
of the Project.
 

 

Part D:

 

Supporting the Economic Inclusion and Empowerment Services Pilot, including
linking Beneficiaries to employment services, provision of Training, and Asset
transfers to said Beneficiaries.

 

 
_7-

SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Section I. Implementation Arrangements

Institutional Arrangements

The Borrower shall cause MOSS to maintain, throughout the implementation of
the Project, the PIU, CASP and PTF, with mandate, functions and resources,
terms of reference, and with staff of adequate qualifications and experience, all
acceptable to the Bank, to be responsible for overall implementation and
coordination of Project activities and such other functions as set forth in the
Project Operations Manual.

Without limitation on the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the Borrower
shall cause MOSS to maintain the PIU to include, throughout the implementation
period of the project, key staff to carry out the Project, including but not limited
to a project director, a financial management specialist, a procurement specialist,
a monitoring and evaluation specialist a senior environmental and _ social
specialist, an environmental officer and a social officer, all under terms of
reference and experience acceptable to the Bank.

The Borrower shall carry out oversight and coordination of the implementation
of the Project through the Ministerial Committee for Social Justice.

Project Operations Manual

The Borrower shall, no later than six (6) months after the Effective Date, cause
the MOSS to update and adopt the Project Operations Manual in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank and thereafter implement the Project in accordance with
its provisions.

Except as the Bank may agree after due consultation, the Borrower shall ensure
that MOSS shall not amend, abrogate or waive any provision of the Project
Operations Manual without the prior written agreement of the Bank.

In the case of any conflict between the arrangements and procedures set out in
the Project Operations Manual and the provisions of this Agreement, the
provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.

Selection of Beneficiaries

Without limitation on the provisions of Section I.B of this Schedule, the
Borrower shall ensure that the selection of Beneficiaries for purposes of Part A of
_8-

the Project shall be undertaken in a manner and in accordance with eligibility
criteria and procedures as set out in the Project Operations Manual.

Safeguards

The Borrower, through MOSS, shall ensure that the Project is carried out in
accordance with the provisions of the ESMF, and to that end, if any activity
included in Project would, pursuant to the ESMF, require the adoption of an
ESMP:

(a) (i) prepare such ESMP and furnish it to the Bank for review and approval
in accordance with the ESMF; and (ii) thereafter disclose such ESMP as
required by the ESMF and approved by the Bank prior to implementation
of the activity in question; (iii) thereafter implement the ESMP during
the Project implementation; and (iv) incorporate said ESMP in the
bidding documents; and

(b) thereafter take such measures as shall be necessary or appropriate to
ensure compliance with the requirements of such ESMP.

The Borrower shall, through MOSS, ensure that all institutional capacity building
activities, including consultants’ services under the Project, is only undertaken
pursuant to terms of reference reviewed and found satisfactory by the Bank, such
terms of reference to ensure that the technical assistance takes into account, and
calls for application of the Bank’s environmental and social safeguards policies
and the Borrower’s own laws relating to the environment and social aspects.

The Borrower shall, through MOSS, ensure that employees, agents, service
providers, contractors and subcontractors carry out the Project in conformity with
acceptable environmental and social standards, practices and codes of conduct
(which shall, inter alia, contain measures that prohibit, endeavour to prevent and
address Project-related gender based violence and sexual exploitation and abuse),
in accordance with the provisions of the Borrower’s environmental and
social laws.

The Borrower shall, through MOSS, ensure that relevant environmental and
social mitigation measures and clauses are included in the tender documents in
accordance with the Safeguard Instruments, in addition to ensuring that
contractors’ EMPs/ESMPs are approved by the Bank prior to commencement of
works subject to environmental and social assessment.

Without limitation upon its other reporting obligations under this Agreement, the
Borrower shall through MOSS regularly collect, compile and submit to the Bank
every calendar semester, reports, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank,
on the status of compliance with the Safeguard Instruments, giving details of:
«Wu

(a) measures taken in furtherance of such Safeguard Instruments;

(b) conditions, if any, which interfere or threaten to interfere with the
smooth implementation of such Safeguard Instruments; and

(c) remedial measures taken or required to be taken to address such
conditions.

The Borrower shall, throughout Project implementation, maintain and publicize
the availability of Project-level grievance, feedback and redress mechanism, in
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, to hear and determine fairly and in
good faith all complaints and feedback raised in relation to the Project, and take
all measures necessary to implement the determinations made by said grievance
feedback and redress mechanism in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.

The Borrower shall not amend, abrogate, repeal, suspend, waive, or otherwise
fail to enforce, or permit to be amended, abrogated, repealed, suspended or
waived any of the Safeguard Instruments or any provision thereof without the
prior written approval of the Bank.

In case of inconsistency between this Agreement and any of the Safeguard
Instruments, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.

Other Implementation Arrangements

The Borrower shall, through MOSS, no later than three (3) months after the
Effective Date, hire an independent Verification Agent under terms of reference,
acceptable to the Bank, to carry out annual Cash Transfer performance audits.
The Borrower shall ensure that reports of said performance audits of the Takaful
and Karama Cash Transfers Program are furnished to the Bank not later than
forty-five (45) days after the end of each Fiscal Year during the implementation
of the Project.

The Borrower shall, through MOSS, hire in a timely manner an independent
entity under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank: (a) to undertake an end-
line impact evaluation for the Project; and (b) to conduct rapid assessment,
process evaluation and impact evaluation of the Economic Inclusion and
Empowerment Services Pilot.

The Borrower shall through MOSS, update the Grievance Redress Mechanism to
handle complaints and grievances from Beneficiaries or third parties relating to
any aspects of the Project, including allegations of fraud and corruption. Such
mechanism shall, inter alia, contain procedures for recording of complaints and
grievances, directing the complainants to the appropriate level for action, the
-10-

review process, and provision of feedback to the complainant on the action taken
on the basis of best practice service standards.

Section II. Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

The Borrower shall through MOSS furnish to the Bank each Project Report not
later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar semester, covering
the calendar semester.

Section III. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. General

Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions
and in accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the
Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to: (a) finance Eligible
Expenditures; (b) pay: (i) the Front-end Fee; and (ii) each Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar premium; in the amount allocated and, if applicable, up to
the percentage set forth against each Category of the following table:

Percentage of

Amount of the Loan Expenditures to be

Allocated financed
Category (expressed in USD) (inclusive of Taxes)

(1) Cash Transfers for 425,000,000 100% of each DLI
EEPs under Part A of Amount set out in the
the Project Annex of this Schedule
(for DLIs 1,4,5,6,7, 9 and
10).

(2) Payments for EEPs 45,000,000 100% of each DLI
under Part D of the Amount set out in the
Project Annex of this Schedule

(for DLIs 2, 3 and 8).

(3) Goods, non-consulting 28,750,000
services, consultants’
services, Training, and
Operating Cost under
Parts B and C of the
Project

 
-ll-

    

    

(4) Front-end Fee 1,250,000 Amount payable pursuant
to Section 2.03 of this

Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07(b) of the

General Conditions

    

 

 
    
 
   
 
    

    
    

(5) Interest Rate Cap or

   
  

Amount due pursuant to
Interest Rate Collar Section 4.05(c) of the
premium General Conditions

TOTAL AMOUNT 500,000,000 LS

B. Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

 

l. Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made:
(a) for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that

withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000,000 may
be made for payments made up to 12 months prior to the Signature Date
for Eligible Expenditures; and

(b) for payments made under Category (1) and (2) until and unless the
Borrower has furnished evidence satisfactory to the Bank with respect to
the achievement of the respective Disbursement-Linked Results (DLRs)
as referred to in the Annex of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and the
additional supporting documentation set forth in the Disbursement and
Financial Information Letter.

2. Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.1(b) of this Section, if any of the DLRs
referred to in the Annex of Schedule 2 to this Agreement has not been achieved,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (a) reallocate all or a portion of the
proceeds of the Loan then allocated to said DLR to any other DLR; and/or
(b) cancel all or a portion of the proceeds of the Loan then allocated to said DLR.

3. The Bank and the Borrower may agree from time to time, by exchange of letters,
to modify DLIs or corresponding amounts for the DLIs set forth in the Annex of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

4. The Closing Date is December 30, 2022.
_12-

Annex of Schedule 2

Category
(including Amount of the
Disbursement Linked Financing
Indicator as Disbursement Allocated
applicable) Linked Result Formula (expressed in USD)
(1) DLI #1: the Re- 100,000,000
certification of
Round 1
Beneficiaries under
the Takaful and
Karama Cash
Transfer Program |
has been finalized.
(2) DLI #2: Number of | DLR#2.1: 30,000 5,000,000 for 25,000,000
profiled Beneficiaries every 6,000
Beneficiaries completed the Beneficiaries
received Training | Training under the trained up to
under the Economic Inclusion 30,000
Economic and Empowerment Beneficiaries
Inclusion and Services Pilot. with a minimum
Empowerment payment for at
Services Pilot. -_ least 6,000
(Baseline: 0) _
Beneficiaries.
(3) DLI #3: Impact N/A

Evaluation Study
of the Economic
Inclusion and
Empowerment
Services Pilot has
been finalized.

has increased to Program.
2,500,000.

(Baseline: 2,268,801
Beneficiaries)

(4) DLI #4: Number of | DLR#4.1: 231,199 N/A
Beneficiaries additional
enrolled under the | Beneficiaries have
Takaful and been enrolled under
Karama Cash the Takaful and
Transfer Program Karama Cash Transfer

 
21h.

 
  

 

(5) DLI #5: Number of | DLR#5.1: 500,000

   
  
 

  
 
  
 
   
   
  

  
   
  
  
    
 
 
    
  
   
   
  

Beneficiaries additional
enrolled under the | Beneficiaries have
Takaful and been enrolled under

  

the Takaful and
Karama Cash Transfer
Program.

Karama Cash
Transfer Program
has increased to
3,000,000.

  

   

(Baseline: 2,500,000

N/A 75,000,000
Beneficiaries)
DLR 6.1: the status of N/A 30,000,000
at least, 1,000,000
beneficiaries of the
Social Solidarity
Pension (Daman) was
reassessed, using the
PMT, for eligibility
under the Takaful and
Karama Cash Transfer
Program.
(Baseline: 0)
P| -
pf -

   
  

(6) DLI #6:
beneficiaries of the
Social Solidarity
Pension (Daman)
reassessed, using
the PMT, for
eligibility under the
Takaful and
Karama Cash
Transfer Program.

 
   
 

   
 
   

   
   
  
 

    
   

   
    
    
   
      
   
       
   
       
     
     

  

(7) DLI #7: Eligibility
calculation formula
is revised, to
prioritize
applicants for the
Takaful and
Karama Cash
Transfer Program
from Frontier
Governorates.

(8) DLI #8:
MIS System
updated and
operationalized for
the Economic
Inclusion and
Empowerment
Services Pilot.

  

     
   
 
  
~ {4 -

| -

DLR#10.1: The 10,000,000
Grievance Redress
Mechanism has been
updated to
accommodate
potential grievances of
the Economic

clusion and
Epowemen

ervices Pilot,
recertification of
Beneficiaries and

conditionality, by the
end of FY21.

  
   
   
     
    
     
 
 
   
     
   
   
   
  
  

  

(9) DLI #9: MIS
adopts the use of
UNR platform to
perform electronic
data exchange with
external databases.

(10) DLI #10: The
Grievance Redress
Mechanism is
updated and

operational.

    
  
     

  
  
 

 

   

 
    
   
   
   
  

DLR#10.2: The
Grievance Redress
Mechanism has a
resolution rate of at
least 80% of received
grievances, by the end
of FY22.

roratawowt |) «0000

5,000,000

     
   

 

 
 

-15-

SCHEDULE 3

Commitment-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule

Principal Payment Date Installment Share

On each March 15 and September 15
Beginning September 15, 2024
through September 15, 2053

On March 15, 2054

 

     

      
 
   
 

  

 

 
10.

-16-

APPENDIX
Definitions

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the
Appendix to the General Conditions, the “Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011 and as
of July 1, 2016.

“Assets” means non-cash items that can be used for productive purposes,
provided that it does not include Excluded Expenditures as defined in this
Agreement.

“Beneficiaries” means poor households or individuals enrolled under the Takaful
and Karama Cash Transfer Program and eligible to receive cash transfers and
selected in accordance with procedures and criteria set out in the Project
Operations Manual.

“Cash Transfers” means the Cash Transfers provided by the Borrower to
Beneficiaries under the Takaful and Karama Cash Transfer Program.

“CASP” means the Central Administration for Social Pension under the Social
Protection Department of MOSS that will be responsible for day-to-day
management of the Project.

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section III of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.

“DLIs” means Disbursement Linked Indicators on the basis of which Cash
Transfers may be financed from the proceeds of the Loan as set out in Section
III.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and the Annex thereto.

‘Economic Inclusion and Empowerment Services Pilot” means the pilot program
under Part D of the Project that facilitates the graduation of Beneficiaries from
the TKP through linking them to employment services, vocational trainings, asset
transfers, as well as promoting financial inclusion and savings among said
beneficiaries, as further elaborated under the POM.

“Eligible Expenditure Program” or “EEP” means a set of defined expenditures
within the Ministry of Solidarity’s budget, including cash transfers expenditures
on employment services, financial inclusion, Training and Asset transfer and
other type of social assistance.

“Environmental and Social Management Framework” or “ESMF” means the
document prepared, adopted and disclosed by the Borrower on November 12,
11.

12.

13,

14.

15.

16.

_17-

2018, setting forth the modalities for site-specific environmental screening and
procedures/actions for the preparation and implementation of the ESMPs under the
Project, the set of mitigation, monitoring, and institutional measures and
procedures required in order to eliminate adverse environmental and social
impacts, offset them, or reduce them to acceptable levels, as well as actions
needed to implement said measures, as the same may be amended from time to
time with the Bank’s prior written approval.

“Environmental and Social Management Plan” or “ESMP” means, for a given
Project activity, a site-specific environmental and social management plan for
said activity to be prepared pursuant to the ESMF, and giving details of specific
actions and setting forth the mitigating, monitoring and institutional measures to
be taken during the implementation and operation of the Project to offset or
reduce adverse environmental impacts to levels acceptable to the Bank, including
the budget and cost estimates, and sources of funding, along with the institutional
and procedural measures needed to implement such actions, measures and
policies and the parties responsible for executing works and monitoring of
construction and operational impact, as the said document may be amended
and/or supplemented from time to time with the prior written concurrence of the
Bank and subject to same initial consultation and disclosure requirements carried
out for the ESMF.

“Excluded Expenditures” means alcoholic beverages, tobacco, un-manufactured,
tobacco refuse, tobacco, manufactured (whether or not containing tobacco
substitutes), radioactive and associated materials, pearls, precious and
semiprecious stones, unworked or worked, nuclear reactors, and parts thereof,
fuel elements (cartridges), nonirradiated, for nuclear reactors, tobacco processing
machinery, jewelry of gold, silver or platinum group metals (except watches and
watchcases) and goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ wares (including set gems), gold,
non-monetary (excluding gold ores and concentrates).

“Frontier Governorates” means the Borrower’s governorates of New Valley,
Matrouh, Red Sea and North Sinai and South Sinai.

“FY” means the Borrower’s Fiscal Year from July 1 to June 30.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project
Financing”, dated December 14, 2018.

“Grievance Redress Mechanism” means a mechanism that the Borrower
develops and adopts for the Project to determine fairly and in good faith all
complaints raised in relation to the Project, and take all measures necessary to
implement the determinations made by such mechanism in a manner satisfactory
to the Bank.
20.

21.

72.

23.

24.

25.

26.

Libs

2 18 ws

“Karama Program” means the Borrower’s Program to provide unconditional cash
transfer to disabled poor or poor elderly (65 years+) or poor orphans.

“Ministerial Committee for Social Justice” established by the Borrower headed
by the Prime Minister and with the representatives of relevant Ministries of the
Borrower to provide, inter alia, oversight to the overall coordination and
progress of the Project.

“MIS” means Management Information System.

“MOPAR” means the Ministry of Planning and Administrative Reform of the
Borrower or any successor thereof.

“MOSS” means the Ministry of Social Solidarity of the Borrower or any
successor thereof.

“Operating Costs” means costs of communication, office space and equipment,
utilities and supplies, bank charges, translation, transportation, maintenance and
insurance of buildings and equipment, travel and per diem incurred in connection
with the implementation of the Project, excluding salaries and incentives of civil
servants of the Borrower, and fees associated with issuance of national
identification cards for Beneficiaries who do not have the said cards needed to
enroll in the Program.

“PIU” means the Project Implementation Unit established by the Borrower to
provide support to MOSS in the day-to-day management and implementing the
Project.

“PMT” means the Proxy Means Test which is a targeting method for social
programs applied by Borrower to calculate eligibility of applicants, as further
elaborated in the POM.

“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project,
dated May 28, 2019, as the same shall be updated from time to time in
accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.

“Procurement Regulations” means, for purposes of paragraph 85 of the Appendix
to the General Conditions, the “World Bank Procurement Regulations for IPF
Borrowers”, dated July 2016, revised November 2017 and August 2018.

“Project Operations Manual” or “POM” means the manual for the Project
prepared and adopted by the Borrower on March 10, 2015, and updated for this
Project further to Section 1.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and which shall
contain detailed implementation arrangements as well as responsibilities and
procedures to ensure proper coordination of Project activities, including the
following provisions: (a) eligibility criteria and procedures for selecting
28.

29.

30.

D1,

32.

a3:

34.

35.

-19-

Beneficiaries; (b) disbursement, financial management, and procurement
procedures; (c) institutional administration, coordination and day-to-day
execution of Project activities; (d) monitoring and evaluation, reporting, and
communications; (e) detailed procedures for coordination and collaboration
among the agencies involved in the implementation of the Project; (f) required
results and arrangements for verification of achievement of the DLRs; and
(g) such other administrative, financial, technical and _ organizational
arrangements and procedures as shall be required for the Project, as the same
may be amended from time to time with prior written approval of the Bank.

“PTF” means the Program Task Force comprising the PIU and the staff of MOSS
established by the Borrower for leading the implementation of the day-to-day
activities of the Project.

“Round 1” means 180,000 TKP Beneficiaries enrolled from March 2015 to
September 2015.

‘Safeguard Instruments” means collectively the ESMF and any ESMP that would
be prepared for the Project, and “Safeguard Instrument” means any one of them.

“Signature Date” means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the
Bank signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to “the
date of the Loan Agreement” in the General Conditions.

“Social Solidarity Pension Daman” means the old social solidarity pension
program operated under the Ministry of Social Solidarity which currently has
approximately 1.6 million households.

“SSN Programs” means the Social Safety Net Programs of the Borrower
designed to provide protection to the poor through income support, including the
TKP and Karama Programs.

“Takaful and Karama Cash Transfer Program” or “TKP” means the national
targeted program under the MOSS of the Borrower providing conditional and
unconditional Cash Transfers to Beneficiaries to provide income support aimed
at the protection and inclusion of poor households with children, the poor elderly
(above age 65) and persons with permanent disability.

“Training” means the reasonable costs of training under the Project approved by
the Bank, and attributable to seminars, and workshops, along with travel and
subsistence allowances for training participants, services of trainers, rental of
training facilities, preparation and reproduction of training materials, and other
activities directly related to course preparation and implementation.
 

36.

Dds

_ 20 -

 

“Unified National Registry” or “UNR” means the registry initially developed by
the MOPAR and currently managed by the Borrower’s administrative control
authority to establish a national database platform to support consolidation of the
SSN Programs and other social service programs of the Borrower and facilitate
coordinated targeting and delivery mechanisms.

“Verification Agent” means an independent entity hired to carry out performance
audits of the Project, as referred to in Section I.E(1) of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and in accordance with the POM.

 

 

 
