Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

LOAN NUMBER 8798-CO

Loan Agreement

(Enhancing Waterway Connectivity and Water Service Provision in Colombia’s Plan
Pazcifico Project)

between

FONDO PARA EL DESARROLLO DEL PLAN TODOS SOMOS PAZCIFICO,
represented by its Fiduciary Agent and Trustee FIDUCIARIA LA PREVISORA, S.A.
(FIDUPREVISORA)

and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
LOAN AGREEMENT

Agreement dated as of the Signature Date, between FONDO PARA EL DESARROLLO

DEL PLAN TODOS SOMOS PAZCIFICO, represented by its Fiduciary Agent and Trustee
FIDUPREVISORA (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).

Whereas the Borrower: (a) is a legal subject (patrimonio autonomo) established to finance

and/or carry out investments related to, inter alia, water supply and basic sanitation, infrastructure,
and energy in the Republic of Colombia’s Pacific region, pursuant to the Borrower’s Enabling
Legislation; and (b) represents that it has the necessary legal capacity and powers to enter into this
Agreement and perform its obligations set forth in the same.

1.01.

1.02.

2.01.

be.

ZilS..

2.04.

2.05.

2.06.

2.07.

The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to and form
part of this Agreement.

Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.

ARTICLE IT — LOAN

The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of forty-one million nine hundred thousand Dollars
($41,900,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency
Conversion (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement (“Project’’).

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section III of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

The Front-end Fee is equal to one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.

The Commitment Charge is equal to one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.

The interest rate is equal to the Reference Rate plus the Fixed Spread or such rate as may
apply following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General Conditions.

The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
3.01.

4.01.

5.01.

5.02.

6.01.

6.02.

ARTICLE II — PROJECT

The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower, through the Unidad Nacional para la Gestidn del Riesgo de Desastres
(UNGRD), shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions, Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and the Borrower’s Enabling
Legislation.

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that the Borrower’s
Enabling Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived, so as
to affect materially and adversely, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of the Borrower
to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that the
Project Operational Manual has been adopted by the Borrower, through the UNGRD, ina

manner satisfactory to the Bank.

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement.

ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

The Borrower’s Representative is the Vice-President of Fiduciary Administration of
FIDUPREVISORA.

For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Borrower’s address is:
FIDUPREVISORA

Calle 72 No. 10-03

Bogota, DC

Colombia

and

(b) the Borrower’s Electronic Address is:

Facsimile:

+571-594-5111 Ext. 1555
6.03. For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Bank’s address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America; and
(b) the Bank’s Electronic Address is:

Facsimile:

+1-202-477-6391
AGREED as of the Signature Date.

FONDO PARA EL DESARROLLO DEL
PLAN TODOS SOMOS_ PAZCIFICO,
represented by its Fiduciary Agent and
Trustee FIDUPREVISORA

 

Name: Cdyorde dost bonadlez Anglo

Title: Diceckor General UNERYD

 

      

ec Name: ana Alejandra nos luna
Title: Vic 1eoidente. de Adin -
naNaCien hdlvaaniG .

Date: Ce tem ber 43 2949

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

» lle Ca__

Authorized Representative

Name: YL LICH S/S; CHAU
Title: Ci Chit) Di pect Be-

Date: & lomber 13 , 2019

 
SCHEDULE 1

Project Description

The objective of the Project is to improve: (i) waterway transport; and (ii) coverage and
quality of water supply and sanitation services, in the Participating Municipalities.

The Project consists of the following parts:

Part 1. Improving Waterway Transport in Participating Municipalities

L, Improving waterway navigation and safety through, inter alia, the design, installation,
supervision and maintenance of necessary signaling equipment (including, inter alia,
bathymetric survey, navigation charts, and transport signaling) between the municipalities
of Francisco Pizarro and Guapi.

2. Improving access to waterway transport through, inter alia:

(a)

(b)

(i) the construction, rehabilitation/update, operation and maintenance of floating
docks and related infrastructure (including administrative facilities, offices for
inspection and waiting and service areas) in the Participating Municipalities,
including the preparation and update of the relevant technical designs, with
consideration given to gender and people with disabilities, and the implementation
of the applicable EMPs and RAPs; (ii) the design and construction of a tertiary
road of approximately three (3) kilometers connecting the center of the
Participating Municipality of Timbiqui with the pertinent floating dock location;
and (iii) supervision and independent monitoring of the foregoing activities; and

the acquisition of land and provision of compensation (including cash
compensation and other assistance paid to Displaced Persons) related to the
implementation of the relevant RAPs for Part 1.2 (a) of the Project.

Part 2. Improving Water Supply and Sanitation Services in Participating Municipalities

i: Improving water supply services in the Participating Municipalities through, inter alia:

(a)

(i) the designs, technical studies and plans (including preparation of water supply
master plans, final feasibility studies, and applicable EMPs and RAPs),
construction/rehabilitation and supervision of new water-intake structures, raw
water mains, new grid units, new water treatment plants, distribution water mains
and networks; (ii) the installation and supervision of micro and macro-metering
and pressure-monitoring systems; (iii) the implementation and supervision of
energy redundancy activities; and (iv) the installation and supervision of intra-
domiciliary connections; and
(b) the acquisition of land and provision of compensation (including cash
compensation and other assistance paid to Displaced Persons) related to the
implementation of the relevant RAPs for Part 2.1 (a) of the Project.

a. Improving sanitation services in Participating Municipalities through, inter alia:

(a) the designs, technical studies and plans, including preparation of sewer master
plans, final feasibility studies, and applicable EMPs and RAPs;

(b) the construction/rehabilitation and supervision of wastewater collection and
treatment and disposal systems, including the installation and supervision of main
collectors, pumping stations, force mains, secondary networks and _intra-
domiciliary connections;

(c) the implementation of public sanitation facilities and solutions for hard-to reach
areas and stilt houses; and

(d) the acquisition of land and provision of compensation (including cash
compensation and other assistance paid to Displaced Persons) related to the
implementation of the relevant RAPs for Part 2.2 (a) and (b) of the Project.

Part 3. Capacity Building and _ Institutional Strengthening for Waterway Transport
Operators and Water Supply and Sanitation Service Providers in Participating
Municipalities

l. Capacity building and institutional strengthening to improve performance and achieve an
efficient, sustainable and safe waterway transport operation including, inter alia, the
following activities:

(a) provision of technical assistance to INVIAS and relevant local authorities on dock
management;
(b) provision of training to waterway transport providers on, inter alia, safety

navigation, first aid, boat mechanics;

(c) preparation of a regional transport plan for the Pacific coast of the Republic of
Colombia and intermodal pre-feasibility studies for the connectivity options
between the municipalities of Tumaco-Francisco Pizarro and Santa Barbara de
Iscuandé-Guapi;

(d) provision of technical assistance for the review and strengthening of the waterway
regulatory framework;

(e) creation of a traffic database and purchase of related equipment;

(f) carrying out of satisfaction surveys to track results and feedback on safety and
quality of waterway transport services; and

6
(g)

preparation of other related studies.

Zz Capacity building to strengthen the capacity of authorities and service providers to improve
performance of water and sanitation service providers and to ensure efficient and
sustainable service delivery, including, inter alia, the following activities:

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

(c)

the development and operationalization of adequate, climate-change and gender-
informed service delivery management models;

the development and implementation of administrative, technical, and commercial
tools, including demand management and non-revenue water management
programs, to improve operational efficiency;

the development and implementation of monitoring tools for tracking service
status and for routine capturing of consumers’ feedback on the quality of service
provided by operators;

the carrying out of technical studies and learning exchange activities on, inter alia,
demand management, non-revenue water, integrated urban water management,
sanitation solutions for hard-to-reach areas with stilt houses; and

the update of water supply and sanitation master plans and detailed designs for
selected municipalities in the Narifio and Cauca Departments.

Part 4. Project Management and Environmental and Social Management

Supporting Project implementation in the areas of, inter alia, financial management (including
audits), procurement, disbursement, and safeguards management, including but not limited to, the
financing of Operating Costs.
SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Section I. Implementation Arrangements

Institutional Arrangements

(a) The Borrower, through UNGRD, shall: (i) carry out the Project in accordance with
the Project Operational Manual; and (ii) not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or
waive any provision of said Project Operational Manual without the prior written
approval of the Bank.

(b) In case of any conflict between the terms of the Project Operational Manual and
this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.

The Borrower, through UNGRD, shall operate and maintain, throughout the
implementation of the Project, the PIU with a structure, functions, responsibilities, and staff
with qualifications and in numbers as provided in the Project Operational Manual and in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank.

Without limitation to Section I.A.2 above, not later than sixty (60) days after the Effective
Date, or such later date as shall be agreed by the Bank, the Borrower, through UNGRD,
shall ensure that the PIU is staffed with the professionals set forth in the Project Operational
Manual, including at the national level and in each Participating Municipality.

The Borrower, through UNGRD, shall operate, throughout the implementation of the
Project, the Executive Committee with functions and responsibilities (including, inter alia,
the responsibility for defining the Borrower’s investment policies, approving its strategic
plans and budget, and carrying out the overall monitoring of Project implementation),
composition and staff with qualifications and in numbers satisfactory to the Bank and
described in the Project Operational Manual.

Not later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date, or such later date as shall be agreed
by the Bank, the Borrower, through UNGRD, shall establish a committee or committees
(Technical Committee(s)) with functions and responsibilities, composition (which shall
include, inter alia, at least a representative from the PIU, MVCT, DNP, INVIAS, DIMAR,
and the MT,) and staff with qualifications and in numbers as provided in the Project
Operational Manual, all in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.

Prior to carrying out any works under Parts 1.2 (a) and 2 of the Project in each Participating
Municipality, the Borrower, shall:

(a) enter into an agreement (Collaboration Agreement) with each Participating
Municipality and other relevant stakeholders, as agreed between the Borrower and
the Bank, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank and set forth in the
Project Operational Manual, including, inter alia: (i) the obligation of each
Participating Municipality to: (A) collaborate with UNGRD in the technical

8
implementation of the activities located under their administrative jurisdiction; (B)
maintain, throughout the implementation of the corresponding activities, a team
who shall serve as focal point and be responsible for the day-to-day cooperation
with the PIU for the implementation of said activities; and (C) upon any transfer
of ownership referred to in (ii) herein to a Participating Municipality, undertake
the periodic operation and maintenance of said infrastructure in accordance with
the provisions of the EMF, all in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) as
applicable, the obligation of the Borrower to, immediately upon completion of the
activities in accordance with the provisions of the Project Operational Manual,
transfer ownership of the infrastructure built under the Project to Participating
Municipalities, INVIAS or other relevant stakeholders, as agreed with the Bank.

(b) exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under each Collaboration
Agreement and not take any action in respect of any Collaboration Agreement, or
any of its provisions which shall affect materially and adversely, in the opinion of
the Bank, the ability of the Borrower to implement the Project, as set forth in this
Agreement. For purposes of the Project, in case of any conflict between the terms
of any Collaboration Agreement and those of this Agreement, the terms of this
Agreement shall prevail.

Prior to carrying out any works under Part 1 of the Project, the Borrower, through UNGRD,
shall agree with INVIAS and DIMAR on the respective coordination, implementation,
operation and maintenance roles and responsibilities, all in a manner acceptable to the Bank
and set forth in the Project Operational Manual.

Safeguards

The Borrower, through UNGRD, shall carry out the Project in accordance with the EMF,
RPF, IPP and ICPP. The Borrower, through UNGRD, shall not amend, suspend, waive
or abrogate any of the provisions of EMF, RPF, IPP and ICPP without the prior written
agreement of the Bank.

Prior to the commencement of any given work under Parts 1 and 2 of the Project, the
Borrower, through UNGRD, shall, as applicable: (i) prepare, disclose, and furnish to the
Bank the pertinent EMP and, if applicable, the pertinent RAP, in accordance with the EMF
and RPF, respectively; and (ii) immediately thereafter, carry out the pertinent works in
accordance with the provisions of said EMP and RAP (including full payment of
compensation and/or the provision of relocation assistance to all affected persons, prior to
any displacement), all in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.

The Borrower, through UNGRD, shall ensure that the terms of reference for any consulting
services related to the technical assistance provided under the Project, shall be satisfactory
to the Bank and, to that end, such terms of reference shall require that the advice conveyed
through such technical assistance be consistent with the requirements of the Bank’s
Safeguards Policies and Procedures.
Section II. Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

A.

The Borrower, through the UNGRD, shall furnish to the Bank each Project Report not later than

Project Reports

forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar semester, covering the calendar semester.

Section III. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

l.

Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and in
accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the Borrower may
withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to finance Eligible Expenditures in the amount allocated

and up to the percentage set forth against each category of the following table:

  
    

    

  

Amount of the Loan Percentage of
Allocated Expenditures to be

(expressed in USD) financed
inclusive of Taxes

41,481,000 100%

419,000 100%

Category

    
     
   
 

  
 

  

(1) Goods, works, non-consulting
services, consulting services
(including audits), Training and
Operating Costs under the Project

 
   
     
 

(2) Land Acquisition and
Compensation under Parts 1.2 (b),
2.1 (b), and 2.2 (d) of the Project

TOTAL AMOUNT
41,900,000

For the purposes of this Section:

  
 

  

(a) the term “Training” means expenditures (other than those for consulting services)
incurred by the Borrower in connection with the carrying out of training, seminars,
and workshops, including the reasonable travel costs (e.g. accommodations,
transportation costs and per diem) of trainees and trainers (if applicable), catering,
rental of training facilities and equipment, training registration fees, as well as

training materials and equipment under the Project;

(b) the term “Operating Costs” means the reasonable incremental operating costs
(which would not have been incurred absent the Project) incurred by the Borrower,
related to Project technical and administrative management, monitoring and
supervision required under the Project, including inter alia, remuneration for
UNGRD operational and technical staff working for the Project, reasonable
operation expenses of FIDUPREVISORA, non-durable office supplies, reasonable
bank charges, travel costs (including accommodations, transportation costs and per
diem), printing services, communication costs, utilities, maintenance of office
equipment and facilities, vehicle operation and maintenance costs, and logistics

10
(c)

services, all as agreed between the Borrower, through the UNGRD and the Bank
and set forth in the Project Operational Manual; and

“Land Acquisition and Compensation” means expenditures incurred for land
acquisition, cash compensation and other assistance paid to Displaced Persons, as
set forth in the respective RAPs, acceptable to the Bank.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawal shall be made:

(a)

(b)

from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-
end Fee; or

for payments made for Eligible Expenditures prior to the Signature Date, except
that withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed two million five hundred
thousand Dollars ($2,500,000.00) may be made for payments made prior to this
date but on or after the date twelve (12) months prior to the Signature Date for
Eligible Expenditures.

The Closing Date is December 15, 2023.

11
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Commitment-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage of the
total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date (“Installment Share’’).

Level Principal Repayments

Principal Payment Date Installment Share

On each May 15 and November 15

  
  
  

 

 
    

14.29%

 

Beginning November 15, 2023

 
       

through May 15, 2026

On November 15, 2026 14.26%

 

12
APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

L.

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud
and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants’, dated
October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.

“Bank’s Safeguards Policies and Procedures” means the operational policies and
procedures of the Bank (as the same may be amended from time to time by the Bank) set
forth in the Bank’s Operational Manual and identified as Environmental Assessment
(OP/BP 4.01), Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04), Forests (OP/BP 4.36), Pest Management
(OP/BP 4.09), Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10), Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP
4.11), Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12), Forestry (OP/BP 4.36), and Safety of Dams
(OP/BP 4.37), as said manual is published under www.worldbank.org.

““Borrower’s Enabling Legislation” means, respectively: (i) article 185 of the Republic of
Colombia’s Law No. 1753 of June 9, 2015, published on the Official Gazette No. 49.538
of June 9, 2015, which, inter alia, established the Borrower; (ii) Decree No. 2121 of
November 3, 2015, issued by the Republic of Colombia’s Ministry of Finance and Public
Credit, which, inter alia, established the Borrower’s internal bodies and governing
structure; (iii) the Operating Regulations; (iv) Resolution No. 4075 of November 12, 2015,
issued by the Republic of Colombia’s Ministry of Finance and Public Credit, which
designated FIDUPREVISORA as the fiduciary agent and trustee of the Borrower; and (v)
Resolution No. 4060 of November 10, 2015, issued by the Republic of Colombia’s
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit, which designated UNGRD as the executing agent
of the Borrower.

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section III. 1 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.

“Collaboration Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in Section I.A.6 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Department” means any of the following political subdivisions of the Republic of
Colombia: Narifio Department and Cauca Department, and any other department as the
Borrower and the Bank shall agree and include in the Project Operational Manual.

“DIMAR” means the General Maritime Directorate of the Republic of Colombia, or any
other legal successor thereof acceptable to the Bank for purposes of the Project.

“Displaced Person” means a person or entity who, on account of the execution of the
Project, has experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts caused
by: (a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of shelter; (ii) loss
of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources or means of livelihood, whether
or not such person must move to another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction to
access to legally designated parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the
livelihood of such person, and “Displaced Persons” means, collectively, the plural thereof.

13
10.

14.

15.

16.

“DNP” means Departamento Nacional de Planeacion, the Republic of Colombia’s
National Department of Planning, or any other legal successor thereof acceptable to the
Bank for purposes of the Project.

“EMF” means the Borrower’s Environmental Management Framework, acceptable to the
Bank, dated August 2017, as published in the Borrower’s territory on August 17, 2017 and
on Bank’s external website on August 18, 2017, and containing the environmental
protection measures in respect of the Project, including, inter alia: (i) the procedures to
screen, assess and develop necessary mitigation measures for any potential environmental
damage and negative impact on physical cultural resources, forests and/or natural habitats
arising from the implementation of Project’s activities (including management measures
for the removal, packaging, transportation and disposal of existing asbestos waste); (ii) the
guidelines for the identification of the existing environmental conditions and potential
direct or indirect environmental impacts resulting from the carrying out of the Project; (iii)
the guidelines for the carrying out of an environmental impact assessment and preparation
of EMPs, when applicable; and (iv) a negative list of investments not eligible for financing;
as said framework may be amended from time to time with the prior written concurrence
of the Bank; and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to said
framework.

“EMP” means any environmental management plan satisfactory to the Bank, prepared and
adopted by the Borrower, in accordance with the provisions of the EMF, and consisting of
the set of mitigation, monitoring, and institutional measures and procedures to eliminate
adverse environmental impacts, offset them, or reduce them to acceptable levels, as well
as actions needed to implement said measures in respect of those rehabilitation or
construction investments under Parts 1 and 2 of the Project; “EMPs” means the plural
thereof.

“Executive Committee” means Junta Administradora, the committee established pursuant
to Law 1753 of June 9, 2015, and regulated pursuant to Decree No. 2121 of November 3,
2015, and referred to in Section I.A.4 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement or any successor
thereto, acceptable to the Bank.

‘“FIDUPREVISORA” means Fiduciaria La Previsora S.A., the Borrower’s fiduciary agent
and trustee, established by public deed dated March 29, 1985 (as subsequently amended)
and registered with the Chamber of Commerce of Bogota under matriculation No.
00247691, or any legal successor thereof, acceptable to the Bank.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project Financing’, dated July 14,
2017.

“INVIAS” means Jnstituto Nacional de Vias, the Republic of Colombia’s National Road
Agency, or any legal successor thereof acceptable to the Bank for purposes of the Project.

“ICPP” means the Information, Communication and Participation Plan acceptable to the
Bank, published in the Borrower’s territory on August 17, 2017 and on the Bank’s external

14
20.

oh

fle

2S.

24.

website on August 18, 2017, setting forth, inter alia, a comprehensive process for
interaction and communication among communities, institutions of the Participating
Municipalities and other Project stakeholders.

“TPP” means the Indigenous Peoples Plan for the Project, acceptable to the Bank, dated
August 2017, as published in the Borrower’s territory on August 17, 2017 and on the
Bank’s external website on August 18, 2017.

“MT" means Ministerio de Transporte, the Republic of Colombia’s Ministry of Transport,
or any legal successor thereof.

“MVCT” means Ministerio de Vivienda, Ciudad y Territorio, the Republic of Colombia’s
Ministry of Housing, City and Territory, or any legal successor thereof.

“Operating Regulations” means the Reglamento Operativo defined pursuant Decree No.
2121 of November 3, 2015, establishing, inter alia, the respective duties and
responsibilities of FDUPREVISORA and UNGRD within the Borrower and the operating
rules for the Borrower’s management and operation, dated October 21, 2016, as said
regulations may be amended from time to time in a manner acceptable to the Bank.

“Participating Municipality’ means any of the following municipalities within the
Republic of Colombia: (a) for Part 1.2 (a) and Part 3.1 of the Project: El Charco, La Tola,
Mosquera, Olaya Herrera, Santa Barbara de Iscuandé (located in Narifio Department), and
Lopez de Micay and Timbiqui (located in Cauca Department); and (b) for Part 2 and Part
3.2 of the Project, El Charco and Timbiqui; and (c) any other municipalities as the
Borrower and the Bank shall agree upon and include in the Project Operational Manual.

“PIU” means the Project Implementation Unit within the UNGRD charged with the overall
project coordination, management, monitoring and evaluation, and referred to in Section
I.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Procurement Regulations” means, for purposes of paragraph 85 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the “World Bank Procurement Regulations for Borrowers under
Investment Project Financing”, dated July 1, 2016.

“Project Operational Manual” means the manual, acceptable to the Bank, and adopted by
the Borrower pursuant to Section 5.01 of this Agreement, setting forth detailed procedures
and guidelines for the carrying out of the Project, including, inter alia: (i) the functions,
responsibilities and staffing of the PIU; (ii) the criteria for selecting investments under
Parts 1 and 2 of the Project; (iii) detailed procedures and timetable for the establishment
and maintenance of financial management, disbursement, flow of funds, accounting and
auditing systems; (iv) the guidelines, procedures, requirements and standard contractual
terms for the procurement of goods, works, consulting services and non-consulting services
financed under the Project; (v) the procedures and mechanisms established to ensure
adequate inter-institutional coordination; (vi) the procedures and mechanisms to deal with
conflicts of interest and fraud and corruption (as said terms are defined in the Anti-
Corruption Guidelines); (vii) the procedures for the monitoring and evaluation of Project
implementation, including the monitoring indicators; (viii) the Operating Regulations; and

15
al

26.

oii

28.

29.

(ix) the respective duties, functions and responsibilities of MVCT, INVIAS, DIMAR, the
Participating Municipalities and other involved stakeholders in connection with the Project
activities, as said manual may be amended from time to time with the prior written
concurrence of the Bank.

“RAP” means any resettlement action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, prepared and
disclosed by the Borrower, in accordance with the provisions of the RPF, and containing,
inter alia, a program of actions, measures and policies for compensation and assistance of
Displaced Persons, including budget and cost estimates, and sources of funding, together
with adequate institutional, monitoring and reporting arrangements capable of ensuring
proper implementation of, and regular feedback on compliance with its terms, for any
rehabilitation or construction works under Parts 1 and 2 of the Project; “RAPs” means the
plural thereof.

“RPF” means the Borrower’s Resettlement Policy Framework dated August 2017,
satisfactory to the Bank, as published in the Borrower’s territory on August 17, 2017 and
in the Bank’s external website on August 18, 2017, setting forth, inter alia, the policies and
procedures for the acquisition of land and other assets, compensation, resettlement,
rehabilitation and other forms of assistance (including the grievance process) of Displaced
Persons, as the case may be, and for the preparation of specific RAPs as may be required
for Project activities, as said framework may be revised from time to time with the prior
written concurrence of the Bank; and such term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental to said framework.

“Signature Date” means the latest of the two dates on which the Borrower and the Bank
signed this Agreement, and such definition applies to all references to “the date of the Loan
Agreement” in the General Conditions.

“Technical Committee” means the committee or committees referred to in Section I.A.5 of
Schedule 2 of this Agreement, or any successor thereto, acceptable to the Bank.

“UNGRD” means Unidad Nacional para la Gestion del Riesgo de Desastres, the
Guarantor’s National Unit for Disaster Risk Management, established pursuant to Decree
No. 4147 of November 3, 2011, issued by the Republic of Colombia, or any legal successor
thereof acceptable to the Bank for purposes of the Project.

16
