Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

LOAN NUMBER 8950-RO

Loan Agreement

(Strengthening Preparedness and Critical Emergency Infrastructure Project)

between

ROMANIA

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between ROMANIA (“Borrower”) and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”). The
Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:

1.01.

1.02.

2.01.

2.02.

2.03.

2.04.

2.05.

2.06.

2.07.

SAL,

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to and form
part of this Agreement.

Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.

ARTICLE II — LOAN
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of forty million Euro (€40,000,000),
as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion
(“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement

(“Project”).

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section III of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.

The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.

The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Fixed Spread or such rate as may apply
following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General Conditions.

The Payment Dates are February | and August 1 in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.

ARTICLE II — PROJECT
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the

Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
4.01.

aA.

5.02.

5.03.

5

ARTICLE IV —EFFECTIVENESS

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date is one hundred and eighty (180) days after the
Signature Date.

ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

The Borrower’s Representative is the Borrower’s Minister of Public Finance, or successor
thereof.

For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Borrower’s address is:
Ministry of Public Finance

16 Libertatii Boulevard, district 5

Bucharest, 050706

Romania;

and

(b) the Borrower’s Electronic Address is:

Facsimile:
40213126792

For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Bank’s address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development

1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America; and

(b) the Bank’s Electronic Address is:

Facsimile:

1-202-477-6391
AGREED as of the Signature Date. / ¢

     

EGE Ul
INISTEE, INTeAI

L
STe ip OF PUBLIC WAKCE

Date: UZ. ZL? sme

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

" TATIANA PRASK URYAKQVA

Authorized Representative

N : i
COU NTE ANA
Xe ANIA

pu ud y 18, AO! ow
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to enhance the resilience of Romanian Gendarmerie
Facilities that are critical to respond to Emergency Situations and disasters and to strengthen the
institutional capacities for emergency preparedness and response.

The Project consists of the following parts:

Part 1: Enhance the Resilience of Selected Romanian Gendarmerie Infrastructure to be used
in Disaster Response

 

Provision of support to finance priority retrofitting and reconstruction investments and technical
assistance to enhance the Emergency Situations response capacity of selected Romanian
Gendarmerie Facilities and guide future infrastructure planning that covers the entire building stock
managed by the General Inspectorate of the Romanian Gendarmerie (GIRG).

Be Priority Investments. Provision of support to improve the seismic safety and disaster
resilience capacity of prioritized critical Romanian Gendarmerie Facilities managed by the GIRG,
and selected for their specific attributions/functions to also respond to disaster and Emergency
Situations, through the carrying out of seismic retrofitting works and/or construction of new
buildings, to be complemented by functional upgrading and adoption of energy efficiency measures
including the following:

(a) preparation, review, and analysis of, among others: the technical surveys, energy
efficiency audits, feasibility studies, (including relevant documentation), technical designs,
technical verifications, authorizations and permits, designer consultant services during execution
of works needed to carry out this component; (b) retrofitting or reconstruction civil works,
including improvement of buildings’ functionalities according to the current Romanian
construction laws, regulations and standards; (c) improvement of energy efficiency, and
strengthening of electrical, water supply, and telecommunication system resilience (e.g., through
the installation of generators and backup communications); (d) functional operationalization of the
new buildings and retrofitted buildings, when needed, (e.g. furniture, safety equipment and other
building amenities); and (e) supervision of construction works.

2. Long-Term Infrastructure Investment Planning. Provision of technical assistance to
support the Romanian Gendarmerie build capacity for a long-term disaster risk reduction strategy
including the following: (a) updating the Romanian Gendarmerie’s infrastructure planning model;
(b) updating the existing framework for the assessment of the entire building stock; and (c)
designing and implementing the first stages of a training program for Romanian Gendarmerie staff
on infrastructure planning.
Part 2: Operational Readiness and Public Awareness

Provision of support to strengthen the institutional capacity of the Romanian Gendarmerie to ensure
operational readiness in the event of an emergency through a series of trainings and acquisition of
essential emergency equipment and technical assistance to carry out public awareness activities to
inform citizens about the role of the Romanian Gendarmerie in an emergency and to raise overall
awareness of the Project.

l. Operational Readiness for Emergency Response. Provision of support to finance the
acquisition of emergency response equipment and provision of trainings to strengthen the

operational readiness of Romanian Gendarmerie personnel, including: (a) personal protective
equipment; (b) equipment for warning and informing the population; (c) upgrading operational
information technology; (d) operational and search and rescue equipment, (e) interoperable
communications equipment; and (f) logistics equipment; all for the sole purpose of Emergency
Situation response.

Be Public Awareness. Provision of technical assistance to carry out the following activities:
(a) meetings with beneficiaries to provide information about the planned investments, the role of
the Romanian Gendarmerie in emergency response, and the benefits of retrofitting and
reconstruction; (b) public awareness campaigns utilizing various communication tools, including
billboards, posters, brochures, and social media; and (c) carrying out of surveys to allow the
Romanian Gendarmerie to better understand the views of the beneficiaries and to track their views
during the lifetime of the Project.

Part 3: Project Management

l. Provision of support to the Project Implementation Unit including procurement, financial
management, monitoring and evaluation, audits, safeguards and technical oversight.

z Provisions of support to establish and maintain a grievance redress mechanism for the
Project.
SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Section I. Implementation Arrangements

A. Institutional Arrangements.

hi Without limitation to the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions, and except as
the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall, through MoIA, maintain at all times during
the implementation of the Project, a PIU within GIRG with composition, resources, terms of
reference and functions acceptable to the Bank. The PIU shall be responsible for the procurement,
technical, financial management, monitoring and evaluation and safeguards compliance under the
Project.

B. Project Operations Manual.

l. The Borrower, through MoIA and as delegated to GIRG, shall implement the Project in
accordance with a Project Operations Manual (“POM”), in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank, that sets out the operational and administrative procedures and requirements for Project
implementation.

2. The POM may not be assigned, amended, abrogated or waived, or permitted to be assigned,
amended, abrogated or waived, or any provision thereof, in a manner which, in the opinion of the
Bank, may materially and adversely affect the implementation of the Project. The POM may only
be amended in consultation with, and after approval of, the Bank. In case of any conflict between
the terms of the POM and those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.

cc Safeguards.

Ll. The Borrower, through GIRG, shall ensure that the Project is carried out with due regard
to appropriate health, safety, social, and environmental standards and practices, and in accordance
with the Safeguards Instruments.

2. The Borrower, through GIRG, shall ensure that the obligation to comply with the relevant
Safeguard Instruments is incorporated: (a) in the contracts between the GIRG and the relevant
contractor(s) and any entity (including any engineer) supervising the Project’s civil works; and (b)
in the contracts between the relevant contractor(s) and the contractors’ subcontractors.

2, The Borrower, through GIRG, shall prior to the carrying out of works under the Project:

(a) carry out site-specific ESMPs, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, for
the relevant works;

(b) prepare, consult and disclose respective site-specific ESMPs in a manner
acceptable to the Bank and as set forth in the ESMF; and
(c) before issuing bidding documents for any works contract, prepare and submit to
the Bank for its approval the relevant ESMPs in form and substance satisfactory to
the Bank.

4. The Borrower, through GIRG, shall ensure that: (a) all consultancies related to technical

assistance, design and capacity building under the Project, the application of whose results could
have environmental, social and health and safety implications, shall only be undertaken pursuant
to terms of reference reviewed and found satisfactory by the Bank; and (b) such terms of reference
shall require the technical assistance, design and capacity building activities to take into account
the requirements of the applicable Bank Safeguards Policies-and EHS Guidelines.

>. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, through GIRG, shall ensure, and
cause to ensure, that none of the provisions of the Safeguard Instruments is abrogated, amended,
repealed, suspended or waived. In case of any inconsistencies between the provisions of any of the
Safeguard Instruments and the provisions of this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall
prevail.

6. The Borrower, through GIRG, shall maintain, throughout Project implementation, and
publicize the availability of a grievance redress mechanism, in form and substance satisfactory to
the Bank, to hear and determine fairly and in good faith all complaints raised in relation to the
Project, and take all measures necessary to implement the determinations made by such mechanism
in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.

Section II. Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

l. The Borrower, through GIRG, shall furnish to the Bank each Project Report not later than
forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar semester, covering the calendar semester.

ee Without limitation upon its other reporting obligations under this Agreement, the
Borrower, through GIRG, shall:

(a) take all measures necessary on its part to regularly collect, compile, and submit to
the Bank, as part of the Project Reports, and promptly in a separate report whenever
the Bank may require, information on the status of compliance with the Safeguards
Instruments. Such information shall include: (i) measures taken in furtherance of
the Safeguards Instruments; (ii) conditions, if any, which interfere or threaten to
interfere with the smooth implementation of the Safeguards Instruments; and (iii)
remedial measures taken or required to be taken to address such conditions;

(b) promptly furnish to the Bank a copy of each monthly progress report prepared and
submitted by any entity (including any engineer) supervising the Project’s civil
works, the Project’s contractors and/or subcontractors; and

(c) promptly upon receipt, the Borrower, through GIRG, shall furnish to the Bank any
notification received from any entity (including any engineer) supervising the
Project’s civil works, the Project’s contractors and/or subcontractors regarding any
incident that might have occurred during Project implementation.
-8-

Section III. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. General.

Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and in
accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the Borrower may
withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to finance Eligible Expenditures in the amount allocated
and, if applicable, up to the percentage set forth against each Category of the following
table:

    

    
  

Amount of the Loan
Allocated
expressed in Euro

40,000,000 100%

TOTAL AMOUNT 40,000,000 Po

B. Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.

Category

   
    
 

  
  
 
   

Percentage of Expenditures
to be financed

  
      
   
   
 

(1) Goods, works, non-
consulting services, and
consulting services (including
audit for the Project),
Training and Operating costs

l. Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A above, no withdrawal shall be made for payments
made prior to the Signature Date.

Ds The Closing Date is December 31, 2025.
-9-

SCHEDULE 3

The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in full on February 1, 2029.

 
1D:

APPENDIX

Definitions

bis

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and Corruption
in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants’’, dated October 15, 2006
and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section III.A of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.

“EHS Guidelines” means the World Bank Group Environmental, Health and Safety
Guidelines published on www.ifc.org/ehsguidelines, as said guidelines are updated from
time to time.

“Emergency Situation” refers to events within the territory of Romania due to natural
hazard risks (such as forest fires, avalanches, earthquakes, landslides, storms, floods),
biological risks (such as public-health related emergencies), and radiological and chemical
risks, and other types of emergency situation events and risks as identified pursuant to the
Government Emergency Ordinance No. 21/2004 on the National Emergency Management
System dated April 15, 2004 regulating emergency situations and Government Decision
No. 557/2016 on Risk Type Management dated August 3, 2016. But emergency situation
does not include any emergency that is predominantly political, security, military, or fiscal
in nature.

“Environmental and Social Management Framework” or “ESMF” means the plan prepared
and adopted by the Borrower, through GIRG dated December 4, 2018 disclosed in-country,
and the Bank’s website on December 10, 2018 setting out the modalities to be followed in
assessing the potential adverse environmental and social impacts of Project activities
including impacts and the measures to be taken to offset, reduce or mitigate such adverse
impacts, as well as for the preparation of environmental and social management plans, as
such framework may be amended by the Borrower, from time to time, with the prior written
agreement of the Bank.

“Environmental and Social Management Plans” or ““ESMPs” means the site-specific plans
prepared by the Borrower, through GIRG during the implementation of the Project, all in
a manner acceptable to the Bank adopted by the Borrower, and disclosed in-country, setting
out details of the specific actions and environmental and social protection measures in
respect of the Project, including for chance finding of cultural property and potential direct
and indirect environmental and social impacts from the carrying out of the Project,
recommendation of mitigation measures for each negative impact identified, as well as
measures for enhancing each identified positive impact, along with the procedural and
institutional measures needed to implement such actions, measures and policies, including
any schedules to such plans, and as such plan may be amended by the Borrower from time
to time, with the prior written approval of the Bank.
10.

11.

12.

Lo

14.

15.

16.

jl

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project Financing”, dated July 14,
2017.

“GIRG” means the Borrower’s General Inspectorate of the Romanian Gendarmerie
established pursuant to the Borrower’s law No. 550 of 29 November 2004 as follows: The
General Inspectorate is the central unit of the Romanian Gendarmerie, with legal status and
general territorial competence, which plans, organizes, manages, coordinates and controls
the activity of subordinated structures, ensures the cooperation and collaboration with the
other state institutions, governmental and non-governmental organizations in the country
and from abroad and perform any other duties given by the law.

‘““MoIA” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Internal Affairs or its successor thereof.
‘““MoPF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Public Finance or its successor thereof.

“Operating Costs” means expenditures incurred by the Romanian Gendarmerie and Project
Implementation Unit on account of the Project implementation for: office supplies, utilities,
bank charges, communication tools, advertisement fees, translation and interpretation
services, car rental and fuel costs, office rental and maintenance, moving expenses,
equipment insurance, maintenance and repair, printing and publications, travel per diem
allowances and accommodation costs for PIU staff, and salaries for PIU staff, including
social charges, but excluding salaries for the Borrower's civil servants and military
personnel.

“Procurement Regulations” means, for purposes of paragraph 85 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the “World Bank Procurement Regulations for IPF Borrowers”, dated
July 2016, revised November 2017 and August 2018.

“Project Implementation Unit” means the Borrower's unit, maintained by the Borrower,
through GIRG, in accordance with Section I.A.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Project Operational Manual” or “POM” means the Project Operational Manual prepared
by the Borrower, through GIRG and approved by MolIA, in accordance with Section I.B of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and satisfactory to the Bank, setting forth the operational and
administrative responsibilities, procedures and rules for the implementation of the Project,
including the ESMF, the Performance Indicators, the list of Romanian Gendarmerie
Facilities eligible for support under this Agreement and the financial management
arrangements for the Project, as the same may be amended and supplemented from time to
time with the Bank's prior written approval.

“Romanian Gendarmerie” means the Borrower’s specialized state institution within the
MolIA, which, according to the law, exercises its attributions on protection of public order
and safety, citizens’ rights and fundamental liberties, public and private property, crime
prevention and detection and other infringements of laws into force, as well as protection
of State’s fundamental institutions and countering of terrorist acts established pursuant to
Law No. 550 of 29 November 2004.

“Romanian Gendarmerie Facilities” means the Romanian Gendarmerie facilities which
have been selected because they play a critical role in Emergency Situation and disaster
Lfa

18.

19.

20.

a.

management: (i) Operational headquarters that perform the following functions:
operational support to Emergency Situations, public order and safety, medical and
logistical support, and protection of citizens’ rights and property pursuant Article 19.1(a)
of the Borrower’s Law 550/2004; and/or (ii) Educational and training headquarters at local,
county and national level that perform the following functions: education and training
facilities and providing operational support to Emergency Situations; and/or, (iii) Housing
spaces that perform the following functions: provide living quarters and housing amenities
for MoIA staff involved in training in emergency situation, and/or for staff involved in
Emergency Situation interventions called in support from other counties in accordance with
the plan of cooperation between the Romanian Gendarmerie and other structures involved
in emergency response. The list of Romanian Gendarmerie facilities identified by the
GIRG as emergency response buildings will be approved by the World Bank pursuant to
this Agreement and included in the POM.

“Training” means Project related study tours, training courses, seminars, workshops and
other training activities, including costs of training materials, space and equipment rental,
travel, accommodation and per diem costs of trainees and trainers, trainers' fees, and other
training related miscellaneous costs.

“Safeguard Instruments” means collectively, the ESMF, and ESMP, and “Safeguard
Instrument” means any of such Safeguards Instruments.

“Safeguard Policies” means, the Operational Policies (OPs) and Bank Procedures (BPs) of
the Bank, namely OP/BP 4.01 (Environmental Assessment), OP/BP 4.11 (Physical
Cultural Resources); they can be found at https://policies.worldbank.org.

“Signature Date” means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the Bank
signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to “the date of the Loan
Agreement” in the General Conditions.
