Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

LOAN NUMBER 8899-PE

Loan Agreement

(Modernization of Water Supply and Sanitation Services Project-
Modernizacién de la Prestacién de los Servicios de Agua Potable y Saneamiento en las EPS
EMAPACOP, SEDACUSCO, SEDAPAR, SEMAPA BARRANCA, EMAPA HUARAL Y
EMAPA HUACHQO)

between
REPUBLIC OF PERU
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between the REPUBLIC OF PERU

(“Borrower”) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:

2.01.

2.03.

2.04.

aD,

2.06.

2.07.

3.01.

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to and form
part of this Agreement.

Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.

ARTICLE If — LOAN

The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of seventy million Dollars (USD
70,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency
Conversion (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement (“Project’’).

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section III of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower’s Representative for purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this Section is the Borrower’s Minister
of Economy and Finance or the Borrower’s Director of Indebtedness and Public Treasury,
or any person whom any of them shall designate in writing.

The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.

The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.

The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Variable Spread or such rate as may apply
following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General Conditions.

The Payment Dates are May 15 and November15 in each year.
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE Il] — PROJECT
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the

Borrower shall: (a) carry out Part 2 of the Project through PNSU, under the supervision of
OTASS; and (b) cause OTASS to carry out Parts 1 and 3 of the Project, all with the
4.01.

4.02.

SLs

5.02.

5.03.

assistance of the Participating EPSs and in accordance with the provisions of the
Cooperation Agreement, Article V of the General Conditions and Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.

ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:

(a) the Cooperation Agreement has been executed by the relevant parties thereto, in
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank;

(b) the OTASS PIU 2 has been created in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank;
and

(c) the Operational Manual has been adopted in a form and substance satisfactory to
the Bank.

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the Signature Date.

ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Economy and Finance, provided that the
Borrower’s Director of Indebtedness and Public Treasury, may, by him or herself represent
the Borrower to sign amendments and/or notices to this Agreement which are considered
of an administrative and non-financial nature. The signing by such Director of an
amendment and/or notice shall constitute a representation by the Borrower that any such
amendment and/or notice is considered to be administrative and non-financial in nature.

For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Borrower’s address is:
Ministry of Economy and Finance

Jr. Junin 319

Cercado de Lima

Lima, Pert

(b) the Borrower’s Electronic Address is:

Facsimile: +51(1) 626-9921

For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Bank’s address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development

1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America; and
(b) the Bank’s Electronic Address is:

Telex: Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)

AGREED as of the Signature Date.

HONORARY WITNESS

 

Minister of Housing, Construction
and Sanitation

REPUBLIC OF PERU

wp Nd Gan

Authorized Representative

Name: CARLOS A. OUva NeyrRa
Title: MinisT@0 De Ecorwottia FiwonZe s
Date: 28 ENE 2019

 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

Ate

Authorized Representative

By

Name: Boris Orrin

Title: Denete eDAGaeTCR
28 ENE 2079

Date:
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description

The objectives of the Project are to increase access to, and quality of, water and sanitation

services in selected areas, and develop the Borrower’s Sectoral Institutions and Participating EPS’s
management capacity to provide efficient water and sanitation services.

The Project consists of the following parts:

Part 1: Improving Governance of Water Supply and Sanitation Service Providers

1.1: Improving Institutions, Policy and Regulation of Water Supply and Sanitation Services

Provision of support for the implementation of policy instruments and WSS regulations aimed at:

(1)

(ii)

(iii)

(iv)

(v)

(vi)

developing a sector-wide management information system to facilitate both, coordination
between WSS sector entities and the regulation of all Service Providers;

strengthening the systems and capacity of SUNASS, including reformulating regulatory
and tariff setting instruments;

developing guidelines or procedures for regulating small EPSs in rural areas, and for
improving targeting of subsidies to enhance the financial efficiency of the WSS sector;

developing a methodology and supporting aggregation of Service Providers, including
defining the minimal scale and size of EPSs and a progressive approach to formally
integrate municipal service providers into EPSs;

preparing multiannual WSS investment plans for the Borrower’s regions of Arequipa,
Ucayali, Cusco and Lima Region North Provinces that will serve as planning instruments
to define WSS service gaps and adequately prioritize the Borrower’s targeting of grant
funding; and

developing instruments, including standard contracts and revised procedures for PPPs in
wastewater treatment.

1.2: Strengthening of OTASS and PNSU

Provision of support to OTASS and PNSU to enhance coordination between technical assistance
and infrastructure implementation of WSS projects, including inter alia:

(1)

(ii)

(iii)

provision of technical assistance (including financing of an ISC firm) to support OTASS
in Project implementation;

development of a policy proposal for remuneration and incentive programs to promote
voluntary retirement and human resources development in the Participating EPSs, and the
development of a communications strategy for OTASS and Service Providers; and

design and implementation of a training program for personnel in PNSU’s regional Citizen
Service Centers, and supporting organizational improvements to enhance PNSU’s response
in preparing and executing civil works projects.
NE nett AS bebe MER ie Pah SBA PETES

1.3: Improving efficiency and sustainability of Participating EPSs

Provision of support to OTASS to improve the performance of the Participating EPSs, including
institutional and planning improvements, strategic planning, capacity building, implementation of
communication and client orientation programs, operational and commercial improvements, and
development and contracting of management contracts, through, infer alia, the following activities:
(1) developing of master plans in SEDAPAR, SEDACUSCO and EMAPACOP;

(ii) designing and implementing information systems in the Participating EPS;

(iii) carrying out of tariff and subsidies studies in the Participating EPS;

(iv) improvement and modernization of current commercial systems in the Participating EPS;

(v) improvement and modernization of operational and management systems in the
Participating EPS; and

(vi) designing and implementing a management contract for EMAPACOP.

Part 2: Improving and Expanding Water Supply and Sanitation Services in the Participating
EPS

Provision of support for the rehabilitation and expansion of WSS infrastructure of Participating
EPSs through the carrying out of Infrastructure Subprojects, which include, inter alia, the following
demand-driven activities:

(i) rehabilitation and extension of existing water supply and sewerage networks and household
connections;
(11) rehabilitation and expansion of existing water and sewerage treatment plants, water storage

tanks and pumping systems;
(111) | development of decentralized WSS treatment capacity;

(iv) | expansion of water and sewerage household connections within areas lacking formal WSS
services; and

(v) installation of macro and micro-meters.

Part 3: General Project Administration

Provision of support for Project management, monitoring and implementation, including technical
assistance and administrative support for the day-to-day implementation of procurement and

financial management activities, environment and social safeguards monitoring, Project monitoring
and evaluation, communications campaigns, Training, and Operating Costs.
SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Section I. Implementation Arrangements

A.

l.

Institutional Arrangements

For purposes of complying with its obligation referred to in Section 3.01 of this Agreement,
the Borrower shall promptly transfer the proceeds of the Loan to OTASS through its
budgetary mechanisms and in a manner acceptable to the Bank.

The Borrower shall:

(a) cause OTASS to operate and maintain, throughout Project implementation, a unit
(“OTASS PIU 2”) within OTASS, with structure, functions and responsibilities
acceptable to the Bank, as set forth in the Operational Manual, including inter alia,
the responsibility to implement Parts 1 and 3 of the Project and monitor and
supervise the carry out of all activities under the Project (including its financial,
procurement and safeguard aspects);

(b) not later than ninety (90) days after the Effective Date, cause OTASS to hire the
following OTASS PIU 2 key staff: a coordinator, a financial management
specialist and a procurement specialist, all with functions, experience,
responsibilities and qualifications acceptable to the Bank, as described in the
Operational Manual;

(c) operate and maintain, throughout Project implementation, a unit (“PNSU FU”)
within PNSU, with functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank, as set
forth in the Operational Manual, including inter alia, the responsibility to
implement, monitor and supervise the carrying out of Part 2 of the Project
(including its financial, procurement and safeguard aspects); and

(d) not later than ninety (90) days after the Effective Date, through the PNSU, hire the
following PNSU FU staff: a coordinator, a financial management specialist and a
procurement specialist, all with functions, experience, responsibilities and
qualifications acceptable to the Bank, as described in the Operational Manual.

Not later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date, the Borrower shall create and
thereafter maintain until completion of the Project, a committee (the Project Coordinating
Committee) to oversee the implementation of the Project. Said committee shall have
membership and functions acceptable to the Bank, including representatives from MEF,
MVCS, PNSU, OTASS and SUNASS, as further defined in the Operational Manual.

Implementation Agreements
To facilitate the implementation of the Project, the Borrower, through PNSU, shall enter

into an agreement with OTASS (the Cooperation Agreement) which shall establish the
responsibilities of OTASS and PNSU in the carrying out of their respective Part of the
Project and the obligation of OTASS to carry out Parts 1 and 3 of the Project in accordance
with the provisions of this Agreement.

(a)

Prior to the carry out of any Infrastructure Subproject under Part 2 of the Project,
the Borrower, through PNSU shall, and shall cause OTASS to, enter into an
agreement with each Participating EPS (the Participation Agreement), under terms
and conditions acceptable to the Bank, which shall include, inter alia, the
obligation of:

(1)

each Participating EPS to:

(A) assist the Borrower, through PNSU, in the carrying out and
monitoring of the pertinent Infrastructure Subproject in accordance with
the pertinent provisions of this Agreement, including technical, financial,
administrative, environmental and fiduciary standards acceptable to the
Bank;

(B) comply with the provisions of the Environmental and Social
Management Framework, the EIAs, the Resettlement Policy Framework
and any ARAP and the IPPF, in accordance with their terms and those of
this Agreement and the Operational Manual;

(C) provide the necessary facilities to allow OTASS and the PNSU,
and designated auditors, to access the documents and records that allow
supervising the activities developed under the Project;

(D) launch and implement communication and awareness campaigns
and ensure that contractors are in compliance with the applicable
Safeguards Documents and procedures set forth in the Operational
Manual;

(E) meet the agreed actions to improve the performance of the
Participating EPS resulting from the carrying out of the activities under
Part 1.3 of the Project, all as set forth in each Participating Agreement and
in the Operational Manual;

(F) meet the targets for the following performance indicators at the
Participating EPS level: (1) Non-revenue Water; (II) Working Ratio; (II)
Operating Margin; (IV) ROA; (V) ROE; (VI) Customer Satisfaction; and
(VII) Metering; as set forth in each Participating Agreement and described
in Schedule 4 to this Agreement;

(G) meet the targets for the following performance indicators at the
Participating Locality levels: (I) Incremental Continuity; (II) Incremental
Water Pressure; (III) Incremental Water Quality; (IV) Incremental waste
water treatment volume; (V) New water connections; (VI) New installed
sewerage connections; (VII) New Metering installed; (VIII) Improved
Water Connections; (IX) Improved Sewerage Connections; and (X)
(b)

(c)

Improved Metering; as set forth in each Participating Agreement and
described in Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and

(H) submit to OTASS annual reports on the status of each
performance indicator referred to in paragraphs (F) an (G) above.

(ii) the Borrower, through PNSU, to carry out Part 2 of the Project under the
supervision of OTASS; and

(iii) | the OTASS to: (A) carry out Parts | and 3 of the Project; and (B) review
the status of the performance indicators included in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement and cause the Participating EPS to carry out any corrective
actions that may be required.

The Borrower, through PNSU, shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations
under each Participation Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except
as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, through PNSU, shall not assign,
amend, abrogate, terminate, waive or fail to enforce any Participating Agreement
or any provisions thereof.

The Borrower shall cause OTASS to exercise its rights and carry out its obligations
under each Participation Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except
as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause OTASS not to assign,
amend, abrogate, terminate, waive or fail to enforce any Participating Agreement
or any provisions thereof.

The Borrower shall cause OTASS to ensure compliance with the targets for the
performance indicators at the Participating EPS level included in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.

(a)

(b)

To facilitate the carrying out of Part 1.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall cause
OTASS to enter into an agreement with SUNASS (the SUNASS Cooperation
Agreement) under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank including, inter
alia, SUNASS’s obligations to:

(i) carry out the activities of the Project in accordance with the relevant
provisions of this Agreement;

) determine, at the request of each Participating EPS, the Incremental Tariff
to cover operation and maintenance costs resulting from the execution of
Infrastructure Subprojects under Part 2 of the Project; and

(iii) | report the status of the performance indicators included in Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.

The Borrower shall cause OTASS to exercise its rights and carry out its obligations
under the SUNASS Cooperation Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause OTASS not to
assign, amend, abrogate, waive, terminate or fail to enforce the SUNASS
Cooperation Agreement or any of its provisions.

Operational Manual

The Borrower shall cause OTASS to, and shall, through PNSU, carry out the respective
Parts of the Project in accordance with the provisions of a manual (the Operational
Manual), satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include, inter alia: (a) the organizational
structure of the Project, including the structure and terms of reference of personnel in
charge of the implementation of the Project and the composition, functions and
responsibilities of the Project Coordinating Committee, the OTASS PIU 2 and the PNSU
FU; (b) the procedures for the carrying out, monitoring and evaluation of the Project; (c)
the indicators for Project monitoring and evaluation; (d) the Project procurement and
financial management requirements and procedures; (e) the Project’s chart of accounts and
internal controls; (f) the criteria for selecting the Participating EPSs; and (g) the Safeguards
Documents.

In case of any conflict between the terms of the Operational Manual and those of this
Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.

Safeguards

Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF) and Environmental
Safeguards Documents

The Borrower, through PNSU, shall, and shall cause OTASS to: (a) implement the Project
in accordance with the ESMF, and, if applicable, the EIAs; (b) comply with the procedures
detailed in said ESMF for environmental screening, evaluation, implementation and
monitoring of Infrastructure Subprojects, including the procedures for the preparation of
environmental and/or social management plans, if applicable; and (c) if applicable,
implement and/or cause to be implemented, the pertinent environmental and social
management plan, in accordance with its terms and in a manner acceptable to the Bank.

Indigenous Peoples Policy Framework (IPPF)

The Borrower, through PNSU, shall, and shall cause OTASS to: (a) implement the Project
in accordance with the IPPF; (b) adopt the procedures detailed in said IPPF for screening,
evaluation, implementation and monitoring of Subproject, including the procedures for the
preparation of indigenous peoples development plans, if applicable; and (c) if applicable,
implement and/or cause to be implemented, the pertinent indigenous peoples development
plan in accordance with its terms and in a manner acceptable to the Bank.

Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) and Abbreviated Resettlement Action Plan
(ARAP)

The Borrower, through PNSU, shall, and shall cause OTASS to: (a) implement the Project
in accordance with the RPF and the ARAP; (b) adopt the procedures detailed in said RPF
10

for screening, evaluation, implementation and monitoring of Infrastructure Subproject,
including the procedures for the preparation of resettlement action plans, if applicable; (c)
implement the ARAP; and (d) if applicable, implement and/or cause to be implemented,
the pertinent resettlement action plan in accordance with its terms and in a manner
acceptable to the Bank.

Technical assistance

The Borrower, through PNSU shall, and shall cause OTASS to ensure that the terms of
reference for any consultancies related to the technical assistance provided under the
Project, shall be acceptable to the Bank and, to that end, such terms of reference shall
require that the advice conveyed through such technical assistance be consistent with the
requirements of the Bank’s Safeguard Policies.

The Borrower through PNSU shall, and shall cause OTASS to ensure that OTASS and
PNSU shall ensure, that all bidding documents and contracts for civil works under the
Project include the obligation of the relevant contractors and subcontractors to: (a) comply
with the obligations under the relevant Safeguards Documents; (b) adopt and implement
measures to assess and manage the risks and impacts of labor influx and workers’ camps;
and (c) adopt and enforce code of conducts that should be provided to and signed by all
workers; all in a manner satisfactory to the Bank and as applicable to such civil works
commissioned or carried out pursuant to said contracts.

The Borrower through PNSU shall, and shall cause OTASS to maintain, throughout
Project implementation, and publicize the availability of a grievance redress mechanism,
in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, to hear and determine fairly and in good
faith all complaints raised in relation to the Project, and take all measures necessary to
implement the determinations made by such mechanism in a manner satisfactory to the
Bank.

Section II. Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

The Borrower shall cause OTASS to furnish to the Bank each Project Report not later than
one month after the end of each calendar semester, covering the calendar semester.

Section III. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

Pin

 

General

Without limitation upon the provisions of Article Il of the General Conditions and in
accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the Borrower may
withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to finance Eligible Expenditures, in the amount
allocated and, if applicable, up to the percentage set forth against each Category of the
following table:
1]

    

     
 
 
  

Category Amount of the Loan Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated to be financed
expressed in USD exclusive of Taxes

            
    
      
    

  
 

  

(1) Goods, works, non-
consulting services, and
consulting services for Part |
of the Project
(2) Goods, works, non-
consulting services, and
consulting services for Part 2
of the Project
(3) Goods, Consulting
services, Training and
Operating Costs for Part 3 of
the Project

TOTAL AMOUNT 70,000,000

B. Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.

   
      

702,312 100%

  
 
 
 
 

    

 
 
    
  
   

    

   

   
        
 

  

     

Li Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A above, no withdrawal shall be made for payments
made prior to the Signature Date.

2. The Closing Date is December 31, 2023.
SCHEDULE 3
Customized Amortization Repayment Schedule

The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan as follows:

Repayment Date Installment Share
ad (Expressed as a Percentage)
pogenber 200)

May 15,2030
November 15,2050

      
     
Eh SRO TR eR PAP een ea a een Le ee ee

SEE PRLS CoE ER:

CLOT

13

SCHEDULE 4

Performance Indicators at Participating EPS level

    
 

   
   
 

,
ndicators pro ject pro ject project
Year | Year Year | Year ‘ _ Baseline | Year5 | Year | Year ie *
2016 target 10 15 20 2016 target 10 15 2016 target 10 15
a a TT
[Working ratio @s)-—_77_1_62_{60 65-12 -|-60.1-60 {= 83 | 65 | 65 | 63 | 61 _|
| 10 | 12 | 14 |

4
5

Pet
ore satisfaction
% 93

ta

=f SEMAPA BARRANCA EMAPA HUARAL EMAPA HUACHO

  

Pees
| 15
os

     

     

With Project With Project With Project
project pro ject project
Baseline | Year5 | Year| Year Year | Year| Year| Baseline | Year5 | Year| Year| Year
2016 target 10 15 20 2016 target 10 15 20 2016 target 10 15 20
Ser fe | [[xfaf » |» [»falal » | 2
water %

    

  

nN

   

Ww
oo

  
    

  
  

[Working ratio(%)| 127 | 75 72_| 2. | | Bs Caer
Pee > po | 2 | pia | ie |
%
Return assets
a

—

pele?

fa {is
eo

|_75_| 80 | 85 |

oo
an

ae
satisfaction % -? 80 | =

[Metering | 1S 0 178 | 80

Pw |
68 ee oe
ay Lu] st | [wl la
ps a el ee al |
eae a we eee
at dae

     

Performance Indicators at Participating Locality level

Service Quality Indicators
Baseline (2016)

Incremental Incremental Water Incremental water pagonans volume
EPS/ Locality Continuity at Year pressure at Year 5 quality at Year 5 ; 0 ee ioe
5 (hours per day) % residual chlorine re.
liters/second

SEDAPAR
Arequipa (Metropolitan)

Caraveli

 
14

 
 
     
 
      
     
    
     
  

 
    
   

   
 

  
 
   
 

 

Chuquibamba 2.49 1.0 0.3 aa

Come |
Ao TCT
‘Chl
yee CESCC“‘i CP
Apion SCLC Cd
Chivy | oC
eiPedegl | SS S|
[Molino | SACL
Cocrachacra | CCSC‘idTC( CP
eCuva SCL TC
fMatarani CT SCSC“‘iRSC“‘CSC 7 CU CP
Mei SSCS
PuntadeBombon «| 0 —CidTC CT tw
eiarnl | Sos SCid| Tt
Fcotahuasi | CSCC
fcucoCidSC“‘CSSCOOO|©C| UUM CUT |
0.57 Pe SC‘iS tC

SEMAPA BARRANCA
Barranca

Supe

EMAPA HUARAL
Huaral

ania |.
Huacho atid dt
—— os ee

Sayén a ee

 

131.3

On
nN
Ww
“
On

 

_
ue
N
~
—

  

EMAPACOP
Pucallpa

 
 
  
    
  
   
  

  
   
    
  
 
  

 
     
   

   

 
   
  
 

 
   
    

   
  
   

  
  

 

       
 
     
      

New installed ‘ Improved Improved
Local areas New water New Metering P e Improved
: sewerage : water sewerage ;
connections : installed 7 : Metering
connections connections connections

  

 

SEDAPAR

alge Pm | es | |
[cue wo to tm
To seDarAR | toaae [ome | oa | ton |

 

    
 

Total SEDACUSCO

SEMAPA BARRANCA

       

 
Total SEMAPA

EMAPA HUARAL

Huaral

EMAPA HUACHO

[AREA PANN a RN RT Sc a een ER RE ENE er La a et AES aa aU aS OMSK ek

15

 
APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

L

“Abbreviated RAP or ARAP” means the Borrower’s instrument, acceptable to the Bank,
published and available to the public on the website www.sedapar.com.pe on February 15,
2018, and on the Bank’s Operations Portal on April 3, 2018 detailing measures to mitigate,
communicate and compensate affected persons for the Infrastructure Subproject to be
carried out in Caraveli.

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and Corruption
in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006
and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.

“Bank Safeguards Policies” means the Bank’s operational policies and procedures set forth
in the Bank’s Operational Manual under OP/BPs 4.01, 4.04, 4.09, 4.10, 4.11, 4.12, 4.36
and 4.37, as said manual is published under http://web.worldbank.org.

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section III.A of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.

“Citizen Service Centers” means Centros de Atencién al Ciudadano, the MVCS’s
decentralized offices that provide, inter alia, water and sanitation related technical
assistance and capacity building to subnational governments and communities.

“Cooperation Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between OTASS and
PNSU, referred to in Section I.B.1 of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement.

“Customer Satisfaction” means the degree of satisfaction with the services provided by the
EPS as measured through a customer satisfaction survey.

“Environmental and Social Management Framework or ESMF” means the Borrower’s
framework, acceptable to the Bank, published and available to the public on the website
www.otass. gob. pe/publicaciones/otras-publicaciones.himl on February 20, 2018, and on
Bank’s Operations Portal on March 2, 2018, which contains the environmental protection
measures in respect of the Project, including, inter alia: (a) measures for chance findings of
cultural property; (b) the guidelines to be followed to prevent natural habitat conversion or
degradation; (c) guidelines for the identification of existing environmental conditions and
potential direct and indirect environmental impacts resulting from the carrying out of the
Project (including the Infrastructure Subprojects); (d) guidelines for the carrying out of
environmental assessments and the preparation of environmental management plans, when
applicable; (e) the recommendation of mitigation measures for each negative
environmental impact identified; and (f) measures for enhancing each identified positive
environmental impact, as said framework may be amended from time to time with the prior
agreement of the Bank.

“Environmental Impact Assessments or EIAs” means the two assessments prepared by the
Borrower for each of the Infrastructure Subprojects to be carried out in Caraveli and
Chuquibamba, which include the environmental health and safety technical forms and
10.

15.

16.

20.

17

archeological studies containing actions and measures to avoid, minimize, mitigate and/or
compensate, as applicable, any environmental, health, safety and social risks and impacts
of the Infrastructure Subprojects to be carried out in Caraveli and Chuquibamba, published
and available to the public on the website www.sedapar.com.pe on February 15, 2018, and
on the Bank’s Operations Portal on April 16, as said documents may be amended from
time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank.

“EPS” means the Empresa Prestadora de Servicios de Saneamiento, the Borrower’s water
supply and sanitation public utilities.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project Financing”, dated July 14,
2017.

“Improved Sewerage Connections” means the number of connections to the sewerage
network improved as a result of the Project.

“Improved Water Connections” means the number of connections to the water supply
network improved as a result of the Project.

“Incremental Continuity” means the variation in continuity between the baseline and end
values.

“Incremental Pressure” means the variation in pressure between the baseline and end
values.

“Incremental Tariff’ means the tariff that allows the Participating EPS to cover the
incremental operation and maintenance costs resulting from any Infrastructure Subproject
under Part 2 of the Project and that should be calculated according to the regulations
established by SUNASS to that effect.

“Incremental Water Quality” means the water quality variation between the baseline and
end values.

“Indigenous Peoples Policy Framework or IPPF” means the Borrower’s framework,
acceptable to the Bank, published and available to the public on the website
www. otass.gob.pe/publicaciones/otras-publicaciones. html on March 6, 2018, and on
the Bank’s Operations Portal on March 1, 2018, detailing measures to mitigate any adverse
impact on indigenous peoples as a result of any activity carried out under the Project and
to ensure that they benefit from the Project, including procedures for the preparation and
implementation of the pertinent indigenous peoples development plans, as said framework
may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank.

“Infrastructure Subproject” means any investment and supervision related activity under
Part 2 of the Project selected in accordance with the criteria and procedures set forth in the

Operational Manual.

“TSC” means an implementation support consulting firm.
aa

aa

34.

as

36.

Di.

38.

a7

19

b. “EBMAPA Huaral” means Empresa Municipal Prestadora de Servicios de Agua
Potable y Saneamiento (“EMAPA Huaral”), with headquarters in Huaral, Lima, created
by the Borrower’s Law No. 26338 dated July 24, 1994.

G: “EMAPACOP” means Empresa Municipal de Agua Potable y Alcantarillado de
Coronel Portillo with headquarters in Pucallpa, Ucayali, created by the Borrower’s Law
No. 26338 dated July 24, 1994.

d. “SEDACUSCO” means Entidad Municipal Prestadora de Servicios de
Saneamiento del Cusco S.A. (‘“SEDACUSCO”), with headquarters in Cusco, Cusco,
created by the Borrower’s Law No. 26338 dated July 24, 1994.

e. “SEDAPAR” means Empresa de Saneamiento de Arequipa (“SEDAPAR”), with
headquarters in Arequipa, Arequipa, created by the Borrower’s Law No. 26338 dated July
24, 1994.

f. “SEMAPA Barranca” means Servicio Municipal de Agua Potable y Alcantarillado
(“SEMAPA Barranca”), with headquarters in Barranca, Lima, created by the Borrower’s
Law No. 26338 dated July 24, 1994.

“Participating Locality” any of the Borrower's locations under the administration of a
Participating EPS which will benefit from the Project.

“PNSU” means Programa Nacional de Saneamiento Urbano, the National Program for
Urban Sanitation, created pursuant to Supreme Decree (Decreto Supremo) No. 02-2012-
Vivienda dated January 6, 2012.

“PNSU FU” means the Project functional unit within PNSU referred to in Section I.A.2.(c)
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.

“PPPs” means public-private partnerships.

“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, dated
February 27, 2017 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and
paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to
time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.

“Procurement Regulations” means, for purposes of paragraph 85 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the “World Bank Procurement Regulations for IPF Borrowers’, dated
July 2016, revised November 2017.

“Project Coordinating Committee” or “PCC” means the Grupo de Trabajo denominado
“Comité de Coordinacion del Proyecto” referred to in Section I.A.3 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.

“Resettlement” means the impact of: (i) an involuntary taking of land under the Project,
which taking causes affected persons to have their: (a) income source or means of
livelihood adversely affected (whether or not the affected persons must move to another
location); or (b) right, title or interest in any house, land (including premises, agricultural
oi.

De

23;

24.

2;

26.

27.

28.

29.

30.

3h

“MEF” means Ministerio de Economia y Finanzas, the Borrower’s Ministry of Economy
and Finance, or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.

“Metering” means the percentage of water connections with micro-meters installed,
properly working and read.

“MVCS” means Ministerio de Vivienda, Construccién y Saneamiento, the Borrower’s
Ministry of Housing, Construction and Sanitation, or any successor thereto acceptable to
the Bank.

“Non-Revenue Water” means the difference between system input water volume and billed
authorized consumption, expressed as a percentage of system input water volume.

“Operating Costs” means the reasonable incremental operational costs (which would not
have been incurred absent the Project) incurred by OTASS and PNSU in connection with
the daily operation of the Project, including, rental and maintenance of equipment and
vehicles, rental of office facilities, office utilities, supplies and materials, domestic travel
and per diem of OTASS and PNSU staff.

“Operating Margin” means the margin calculated by dividing the operating income (net
revenues — all operating expenses) by the net revenues during a specific period.

“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section I.D.1 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, as said manual may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the
Bank.

“OTASS” means Organismo Técnico de la Administracién de los Servicios de
Saneamiento, the Borrower’s Technical Organization for the Administration of Water and
Sanitation Services, created by the Borrower’s Law No. 30045 dated June 18, 2013 to
execute the policies of the water and sanitation sector in the areas of management and
administration of WSS services and regulated by the Borrowers’s Legislative Decree No.
1280 dated December 28, 2016.

“OTASS PIU 2” means the Project Implementation Unit within OTASS referred to in
Section I.A.2.(a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, or any successor thereto acceptable to
the Bank.

“Participating Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.B.2 of Schedule 2
to this Agreement.

“Participating EPS” means any and all of the following EPSs that were selected to
participate in the Project according to the eligibility criteria and procedures set forth in the
Operational Manual:

a. “EMAPA Huacho” means Aguas de Lima Norte, formely Empresa Municipal
Prestadora de Servicios de Agua Potable y Saneamiento (“EMAPA Huacho”), with
headquarters in Huacho, Lima, created by the Borrower’s Law No. 26338 dated J uly 24,
1994,
40.

41.

42.

43.

44.

45.

46.

47.

48.

49,

50.

20

and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset acquired or possessed, temporarily
or permanently; or (c) access to productive assets adversely affected, temporarily or
permanently; or (d) business, occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely
affected, temporarily or permanently; or (ii) an involuntary restriction of access to natural
resources in legally designated parks and protected areas (including reserves) which causes
an adverse impact on the livelihoods of the affected persons.

“ROA” means return on assets.
“ROE” means return on equity.

‘“RPF” means Resettlement Policy Framework means the Borrower’s plan, acceptable to
the Bank, published and available to the public on the website
www. otass. gob. pe/publicaciones/otras-publicaciones.html on March 6, 2018, and on
Bank’s Operations Portal on March 2, 2018, detailing measures to mitigate any adverse
impact on temporary or permanent Resettlement as a result of any activity carried out under
the Project and to ensure that they benefit from the Project, including procedures for the
preparation and implementation of the pertinent abbreviated resettlement action plans.

“Safeguard Documents” means the ESMF, the EIAs, the IPPF, the RPF, and the ARAP.
“Sectoral Institutions” means MVCS, OTASS, PNSU and SUNASS.

“Service Provider” means: (i) a public water utility which provides WSS services in the
Borrower’s territory; (ii) a municipal department in charge of provision of WSS services
within its municipal boundaries; (iii) a rural water boards (Junta administradora de
servicios de saneamiento); and (iv) rural water associations (asociacioén de usuarios) that
is legally recognized to provide WSS services in rural areas.

“Signature Date” means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the Bank
signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to “the date of the Loan
Agreement” in the General Conditions.

“SUNASS” means Superintendencia Nacional de Servicios de Saneamiento, the National
Superintendence of Water and Sanitation Services created by the Borrower’s Legislative
Decree No. 25965 dated December 19, 1992 and regulated by the Borrowers’s Legislative
Decree No. 1280 dated December 28, 2016 and the Borrower’s Law 27332 dated July 29,
2000.

“SUNASS Cooperation Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between the
OTASS and SUNASS, referred to in Section 1.B.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Training” means the non-consulting expenditures incurred by OTASS in connection with
training activities, workshops and study tours under the Project, including the rental of
facilities, training materials and international and domestic travel, lodging and per diem of
trainers and trainees.

“Working Ratio” means the ratio calculated between operational expenses (personnel
costs, energy, chemicals, goods and services), without depreciation, and operational
S1.

21

income (water and sewerage revenues, other technical services revenues and accounts
receivable).

“WSS” means water supply and sanitation.

 
