Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

LOAN NUMBER 9013-ME

Loan Agreement

(Additional Financing to the Revenue Administration Reform Project)

between
MONTENEGRO
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between MONTENEGRO

(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:

101.

1.02.

oh.

2.02.

2.03.

2.04.

2.05.

2.06.

2.07.

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to
and form part of this Agreement.

Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.

ARTICLE II — LOAN
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of four million eight hundred
thousand Euro (EUR 4,800,000.00), as such amount may be converted from time
to time through a Currency Conversion (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project

described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”).

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.

The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.

The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Fixed Spread or such rate as may
apply following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General
Conditions.

The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
SL,

4.01.

5.01.

5.02.

ARTICLE II — PROJECT

The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through the MTA in accordance with
the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.

ARTICLE IV — TERMINATION

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred eighty (180) days after the
Signature Date.

ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
The Borrower’s Representative is the Ministry of Finance.

For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Borrower’s
address is:

Ministry of Finance
Stanka Dragojevica 2
81000 Podgorica
Montenegro; and

(b) the Borrower’s Electronic Address is:

Facsimile: E-mail:
+ 382 20 202 167 dragan.darmanovic@mif.gov.me

For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Bank’s address
is:

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America; and

(b) the Bank’s Electronic Address is:
Telex: Facsimile:

248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391
64145(MCT)
 

AGREED as of the Signature Date.

MONTENEGRO

By

    

Authorized Representative

|
Name: v WAC
Title: Win Site OF Finance
Date: CVEMRKEV AA \FG

INTERNATIONAL BANK “A RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPME
wr

Tips Cowie Mawacer

Datee NovcNpe? 14 ) ZONA

 

 
SCHEDULE 1

Project Description

The objective of the Project is to improve effectiveness of operational functions of
Montenegro’s tax administration and to reduce the compliance costs for corporate taxpayers.

The Project consists of the Original Project and following additional part:

Part IV: Electronic Fiscal Invoicing

Support the MTA to develop and implement an EFI system through, inter alia:
(i) customization of a solution for an EFI system and its implementation; (ii) procurement
of the hardware and complementary software and licenses necessary for the
implementation of the EFI system; (iii) integration of the EFI system with other MTA
systems including the IRMS; (iv) consultancy services to support the MTA in monitoring
and quality compliance; and (v) training of the MTA staff to implement the EFI system.
SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Section I. Implementation Arrangements

A.

Institutional Arrangements

The Borrower shall operate and maintain throughout the implementation of the
Project, the PMU, the Project Steering Committee, the Revenue Modernization
Advisory Board, the PIC, the Working Groups and the TSU, respectively, with
staff, resources as needed, functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank
and in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Operational Manual.

Operational Manual

The Borrower, through the MTA, shall update and adopt the Operational Manual
satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include, inter alia: (a) a detailed description
of Project activities and institutional arrangements for the Project; (b) the Project
administrative, accounting, auditing, reporting, financial (including cash flow
aspects in relation thereto), procurement and disbursement procedures; (c) the
monitoring indicators for the Project; and (d) the institutional and administrative
mechanisms established to ensure inter-agency coordination for Project
implementation, including the functions, responsibilities and staffing requirements
under the Project.

Except as the Borrower and the Bank may otherwise agree in writing, the Borrower
shall not abrogate, amend, suspend, waive or otherwise fail to enforce the
Operational Manual or any provision thereof.

In case of any conflict between the terms of the Operational Manual and this
Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.

Section II. Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation

The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank each Project Report not later than
one (1) month after the end of each calendar semester, covering the calendar
semester.
Section III. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

A. General

Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and
in accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the
Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to: (a) finance Eligible
Expenditures; and (b) pay: (i) the Front-end Fee; and (ii) each Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar premium; in the amount allocated and, if applicable, up to the
percentage set forth against each Category of the following table:

 
   
     
   
 
   
      
     

Percentage of
Amount of the Loan Expenditures to be
Allocated financed
(expressed in EURO) | (inclusive of Taxes other
than VAT
(1) Goods, non-consulting
services, consultants’
services, Operating Costs 4,788,000 100%
and Training under
Part IV of the Project
Amount payable pursuant to
Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions
(3) Interest Rate Cap or Amount due pursuant to
Interest Rate Collar Section 4.05 (c) of the
premium General Conditions

TOTAL AMOUNT 4,800,000 Lo __}

    

   

  

(2) Front-end Fee 12,000

      
      
   

 

       

B. Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

Ls Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A above, no withdrawal shall be made for
payments made prior to the Signature Date.

D The Closing Date is March 31, 2023.
 

SCHEDULE 3

Commitment-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage
of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date
(“Installment Share”).

Level Principal Repayments

Principal Payment Date Installment Share

On each February 15 and August 15

       

Beginning August 15, 2024
through February 15, 2044

 
APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

l.

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix
to the General Conditions, the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud
and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”,
dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section III.A of Schedule 2
to this Agreement.

“EFI” means Electronic Fiscal Invoicing.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project
Financing”, dated December 14, 2018.

“IRMS” means the Integrated Revenue Management System to be developed
under Part II.3 of the Project.

“Ministry of Finance” or “MOF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance and
includes any successor thereto.

“Montenegro Tax Administration” or “MTA” means the Borrower’s tax
administration, established through the Law on State Administration published on
Official Gazette RCG 28/2003 as amended through Official Gazette CG 54/2016,
and includes any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank. The Montenegro Tax
Administration shall be considered the “Project Implementing Entity” for purposes
of the General Conditions.

“Operational Manual” means the operational manual adopted by the Borrower for
the Project, referred to in Section I.B.1 of Schedule 2 to the Original Loan
Agreement and this Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank.

“Original Loan Agreement” means the loan agreement for a Revenue
Administration Reform Project between the Borrower and the Bank, dated
January 19, 2018, as amended to the date of this Agreement (Loan No. 8772-ME).

“Original Project” means the project set forth in Schedule 1 to the Original Loan
Agreement.
11.

Las

LS.

14.

15:

16.

18.

“PIC” means the Project Implementation Committee, established by the Borrower
through the Internal Order No. 03/1-9703/1-17 of May 31, 2017, and aimed to
ensure, inter alia, that the Project activities are properly coordinated and
implemented, and includes any successor thereto.

“PMU” means project management unit referred to in Section I.A. of Schedule 2
to this Agreement responsible for, inter alia: (i) carrying out the project
management and reporting; and (ii) coordinating with the TSU the procurement,
financial management, and disbursement activities under the Project.

“Procurement Regulations” means, for purposes of paragraph 85 of the Appendix
to the General Conditions, the “World Bank Procurement Regulations for IPF
Borrowers”, dated July 2016, revised November 2017 and August 2018.

“Revenue Modernization Advisory Board” means the revenue modernization
advisory board referred to in Section I.A. of Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
comprised of representatives of associations of taxpayers, business associations,
tax accountants and auditors, responsible for, inter alia, providing feedback to the
Project Steering Committee on the institutional changes to be made under the
Project, and includes any successor thereto.

“Signature Date” means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the
Bank signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to “the
date of the Loan Agreement” in the General Conditions.

“TSU” means the Technical Services Unit within the MOF, responsible for
carrying out the procurement, disbursement and financial management activities
relating to the Project.

“VAT” means the Value Added Tax as established by the Borrower’s fiscal
legislation.

“Working Groups” means the five working groups established by the Borrower
through the Internal Orders No. 03/1-9701 through 9704/1-17 of May 31, 2017,
and the Decision of the MTA No.03/1-20102/1-19 dated September 2, 2019
respectively, responsible for, inter alia: (i) carrying out day-to-day implementation
of Project activities of components I.1, II.1, I[.3, III and IV of the Project,
respectively, with the support of the PMU; (ii) developing the terms or reference
and technical specifications relating to the consulting services under the project;
and (iii) supervising the execution of said consulting services in their respective
areas of responsibility, and includes any successors thereto.
