Public Disclosure Authorized

| Public Disclosure Authorized |

 

OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

 

 

LOAN NUMBER 89210-IN

Loan Agreement

(Additional Financing for Uttarakhand Disaster Recovery Project)

between
INDIA
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
 

fe rrmeMI e sortcr nace MARR IMRRRBRR I OLE RY IR

A De aap aaa Se es et oe 1 A ed Pts

LOAN AGREEMENT

_ Agreement dated as of the Signature Date, between INDIA (“Borrower”) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”). The
Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01. The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to and form
part of this Agreement.

1.02. Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions, the Original Financing
Agreement (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) and/or the Appendix to this
Agreement.

ARTICLE Il — LOAN

2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of ninety six million United States
dollars (USD 96,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion (“Loan”), to assist in financing the sub-Component 1.2 and
Components 2, 3, 5 and 6 of the Original Project, described in Schedule | of the Original
Financing Agreement, as amended (the “Project’’).

2.02. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

2.03. The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.

2.04. The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.

2.05. The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Vanable Spread or such rate as may apply
following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General Conditions.

2.06. The Payment Dates are May | and November | in each year.

2.07. The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.

2.08. (a)  Ifon any given day, the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit (as
said terms are defined in sub-paragraphs (b)(ii) and (b)(iti) of this Section), the
Borrower shall pay to the Bank a surcharge at the rate of one half of one percent
(0.5%) per annum of the Allocated Excess Exposure Amount (as defined in sub-
paragraph (b)(i) of this Section) for each said day (“Exposure Surcharge”). The
Exposure Surcharge (if any) shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each
Payment Date.

ubiriaciae ths neta tage eae Cae aia ear BS, ana a eS a eh as ae he ae an as os Sh CAS Bi TSA Rag vo EN ST. CORRE pes ARE BS Li) eal CGE EE ERIE
(b) For purposes of this Section the following terms have the meanings set forth below:

(i) “Allocated Excess Exposure Amount” means for each day during which
the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit, the product of:
(A) the total amount of said excess; and (B) the ratio of all (or, if the Bank
so determines, a portion) of the Loan to the aggregate amount of all (or the
equivalent portions) of the loans made by the Bank to the Borrower, and
to other borrowers guaranteed by the Borrower that are also subject to an
exposure surcharge, as said excess and ratio are reasonably determined
from time to time by the Bank.

(it) “Standard Exposure Limit” means the standard limit on the Bank’s
financial exposure to the Borrower which, if exceeded, would subject the
Loan to the Exposure Surcharge, as determined from time to time by the
Bank.

(iii) “Total Exposure” means for any given day, the Bank’s total financial
exposure to the Borrower, as reasonably determined by the Bank.

ARTICLE 0 — PROJECT

3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project Implementing Entity in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and the Schedule to the Project Agreement.

ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
4.01. The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the Signature Date.
ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. The Borrower’s Representative is any of the following officials, acting severally; the
Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary, or Under
Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs of the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance.
5.02. For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) the Borrower’s address is:
Secretary to the Government of India
Department of Economic Affairs
Ministry of Finance
North Block
New Delhi 110 001, India; and

(b) the Borrower’s Electronic Address is:

Facsimile: E-mail:
+91-11-23094075 secy-dea@nic.in

 
 

rg hep ce cna penne eae oR RE HR RE

 

5.03. For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) the Bank’s address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America; and

(b) the Bank’s Electronic Address is:

Telex: Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)

AGREED as of ithe Signature Date.

INDIA

By \

ized Representative

Name: SAMEEL Ment ee KyARee

    

Tite: ABbs 77h. SECSOrWAY

Date: MARCH S 2019

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AN PMENT

   
  

By

 

Auttorized Representative

Name: SHAM ABO

Title: Acta CoomTRy SikectDR Wh
Date: MARCH S erg
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description

The objectives of the Project are the same as the ones set forth in the Original Project,
which are to restore housing, rural connectivity and build the resilience of communities in

Uttarakhand and increase the technical capacity of state entities to respond promptly and effectively
to an Eligible Crisis or Emergency.

The Project consists of sub-Components 1.2 and Components 2,3, 5 and 6 of the Original
Project, as amended
SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

} Section I. Implementation Arrangements
} A. On-lending Arrangements

l. To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make the proceeds of the
Loan available to the Project Implementing Entity in accordance with the Borrower’s
standard arrangements for development assistance to the States of India.

2. Notwithstanding paragraph | above, in the event that any provision of this Agreement,
including the instructions that the Bank shall have specified by notice to the Borrower
pursuant to Section 2.01(b) of the Genera! Condition (including the Disbursement and
Financial Information Letter), were to be found inconsistent with the Borrower’s standard
arrangements for development assistance to the States of India, the provisions of this
Agreement and related instructions shall prevail.

2. The Borrower shall at all times protect the interests of the Bank to accomplish the purposes
of the Loan.

Section IT. Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to furnish to the Bank each
Project Report not later than sixty (60) days after the end of each calendar quarter, covering
the calendar quarter.

Section III. Procurement of Emergency Expenditures under the CER Component of the
Project

Emergency Expenditures required for the CER Component of the Project shall be procured
in accordance with the procurement methods and procedures set forth in the CER
Operations Manual.

Section [V. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
j A, General

l. Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and in
d accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the Borrower may

withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to: (a) finance Eligible Expenditures; (b) pay: (1) the
Front-end Fee; and (11)Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar premium; in the amount
allocated and, if applicable, up to the percentage set forth against each Category of the
following table:

 
2

| Amount of the Loan Percentage of Expenditures
Category Allocated to be financed
expressed in USD inclusive of Taxes

(1) Goods, works, non-
consulting services,
consulting services,

Training and Workshops
and Incremental
Operating Costs for sub-
Components 1.2 and
Components 2, 3 and 5
of the Original Project
(as amended)

95,760,000 80%

Amount payable pursuant to
Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions

   
     
   
 
   
 
      

(2) Emergency Expenditures
for the CER Component
(i.e. Component 6 of the
Original Project)

       
     
     
   
 

(3) Front-end Fee 240,000

(4) Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar
premium

B. Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

Amount due pursuant to
Section 4.05 (c) of the
General Conditions

  

L. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph | above, no withdrawal shall be made:

(a) for payments made prior to the Signature Date, except that withdrawals up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed USD 19,200,000 may be made for payments made
prior to this date but on or after August 1, 2018, for Eligible Expenditures; and

(b) under Category (2), unless and until the Bank is satisfied, and has notified the
Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity ofits satisfaction, that the following
conditions have been met:

(1) the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity have determined that
an Eligible Crisis or Emergency has occurred, have furnished to the Bank

 

 
5

a request to include certain activities in the CER Component in order to
respond to said Eligible Crisis or Emergency, and the Bank has agreed
with such determination, accepted said request, and notified the Borrower
and the Project Implementing Entity thereof;

(11) the Project Implementing Entity has prepared and disclosed all safeguard
) ; instruments, acceptable to the Bank, required for said activities, and has

implemented any actions which are required to be taken under said
instruments, all in accordance with the provisions of Section I.D.1(a){vi)
of the Schedule to the Project Agreement;

(iii) the Project Implementing Entity has provided sufficient evidence
satisfactory to the Bank, that the Coordinating Authority has adequate staff
and resources in accordance with the provision of Section I.D.2 of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement, for the purposes of said activities; and

(iv) the Project Implementing Entity has adopted a CER Operations Manual in
form, substance and manner acceptable to the Bank and the provisions of
the CER Operations Manual remain —or have been updated in accordance
with the provisions of Section I.D.1(a) of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement, so as to be— appropriate for the inclusion and implementation
of said activities under the respective CER Component.

- The Closing Date is March 31, 2022.

 
SCHEDULE 3
Commitment-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage of the
total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date (“Installment Share”).

Principal Payment Date Installment Share

On each May | and November 1
Beginning May 1, 2024
through November 1, 2033

      

    

5%

  

 
ee

2

APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means, tor purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and Corruption
in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006
and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.

“CER Component” means Component 6 of the Original Project, as described in Schedule
I to the Original Financing Agreement.

“CER Operations Manual” means the immediate response mechanism operations manuals
referred to in Section 1.D of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, acceptable to the Bank
to be adopted by the Project Implementing Entity for the implementation of the CER
Component, in accordance with the provision of said Section.

“Component” means each of the parts singled out as Components | through 6, in the

description of the Original Project, as amended.

“Coordinating Authority” means the entity or entities designated by the Project
Implementing Entity in the CER Operations Manual, and approved by the Bank pursuant
to Section I1.D.1(a) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, to be responsible for
coordinating their respective CER Component.

“Core Committee” means the committee referred to in Section I.A.2.(a) of the Schedule to
the Onginal Project Agreement.

“Displaced Persons” means persons who, on account of the execution of the Project, have
experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts caused by: (a) the
involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets or
access to assets; or (111) loss of income sources or means of livelihood, whether or not such
persons must move to another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally
designated parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impact on the livelihoods of such
persons.

“District Level Coordination Unit” means each district committee, referred to in Section
1.A.2(e) of the Schedule to the Original Project Agreement.

“Eligible Crisis or Emergency” means an event that has caused, or is likely to imminently
cause, a major adverse economic and/or social impact in Uttarakhand, associated with a
natural or man-made crisis or disaster. .

“Emergency Expenditures” means any of the eligible expenditures set forth in the CER
Operations Manual, in accordance with the provision of Section I.D of the Schedule to the
 

14.

16.

20.

Bhs

6-

Project Agreement, and required for the activities described in such manual to be financed
under the said CER Component.

“ESMF” means the Project Implementing Entity’s environmental and social management
framework for the Onginal Project, disclosed by Uttarakhand on September 18, 2013 and
re-disclosed on January 20, 2018; as such framework may be revised, updated or
supplemented from time to time with the prior written concurrence of the Bank.

“GAAP” means the Project Implementing Entity’s governance and accountability action
plan for the Original Project dated October 4, 2013, and updated on December 18, 2018;
as such action plan may be revised, updated or supplemented, from time to time, with the
prior written concurrence of the Bank.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project Financing”, dated July 14,
2017.

“High Powered Committee for Sanctioning of Post Disaster Reconstruction Works” means
the committee referred to in Section I.A.2(b) of the Schedule to the Original Project
Agreement.

“Incremental Operating Costs” means the reasonable costs of incremental expenditures
incurred by the Project Implementing Entity on account of Project implementation,
management and monitoring, including, inter alia: (1) costs of incremental contractual staff
salaries (other than consultants) and civil servants deputed to the Project; (11) dissemination
of Project related information; (iti) office rental and leasing operation and maintenance of
equipment; (iv) office supplies and utilities; (v) travel and boarding/lodging allowances;
(vi) leasing, operation and maintenance of vehicles; (vii) advertising and communication
expenses; and (viii) bank charges.

"Line Departments and Agencies" means, collectively, Uttarakhand’s Public Works
Department, the Uttarakhand State Infrastructure Development Corporation, the USDMA,
and the Uttarakhand Space Application Center.

“Operations Manual” means the Project Implementing Entity’s manual for the Original
Project dated October 4, 2013, and updated on December 18, 2018; as said manual may be
amended from time to time with the prior concurrence of the Bank.

“Original Financing Agreement” means the agreement between the Borrower and the
International Development Association for the financing of the Original Project, dated
January 9, 2014 (Credit No.5313-IN), as amended from time to time.

“Original Project” means the Project described in Schedule | to the Original Financing
Agreement, as amended from time to time.

“Original Project Agreement” means the agreement between the International
Development Association and Uttarakhand for the implementation of the Original Project,
dated January 9, 2014, as amended from time to time.
22.

23.

24.

25.

26.

af.

28.

29.

30.

“Procurement Regulations” means, for purposes of paragraph 85 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the “World Bank Procurement Regulations for Borrowers under
Investment Project Financing”, dated July 1, 2016 and revised in November 2017.

“Project Implementation Units’ mean collectively the project implementation units
referred to in Section I.A.2(d) of the Schedule to the Original Project Agreement.

“Project Implementing Entity” means the State of Uttarakhand (also referred as
Uttarakhand).

“Project Management Unit” and the acronym “PMU” mean the project management unit
referred to in Section I.A.2(c) of the Schedule to the Original Project Agreement.

“Safeguard Documents” means collectively, the ESMF and the environmental
assessments, environmental management plans, social assessments, social management
plans, resettlement action plans for Displaced Persons and other documents (to be)
prepared, disclosed and implemented pursuant to Section 1.C.2. of the Schedule to the
Project Agreement. |

“Signature Date” means the latest of the two dates on which the Borrower and the Bank
signed this Agreement and such definition applied to all references to “the date of the Loan
Agreement” in the General Conditions.

“Training and Workshops” means the reasonable costs of training and workshops incurred
by the Project Implementing Entity on account of Project implementation, including inter
alia: (i) study tours, courses, conferences and workshops conducted and/or attended by
staff of the Project Implementing Entity and/or stakeholders in the territory of the Borrower
or, subject to the prior no-objection of the Bank, overseas, including the purchase and
publication of materials, rental of facilities, course fees, and lodging, travel expenses and
per diems for trainers and/or trainees.

“Uttarakhand” means the Borrower's State of Uttarakhand formed and recognized pursuant
to the Borrower’s Uttar Pradesh Reorganization Act of 2000.

“Uttarakhand State Disaster Management Authority" and the acronym "USDMA" mean
the authority established by Uttarakhand by the Disaster Management Act of 2005, to be
vested with the responsibility for the overall coordination of Project activities by the Project
Implementing Entity, or any successor thereto.
