Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

LOAN NUMBER 8952-GE

Loan Agreement

(Energy Supply Reliability and Financial Recovery Project)

between
GEORGIA
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between GEORGIA (“Borrower’’)

and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(“Bank”). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:

LO,

1.02.

2.01.

2.02.

2.03.

2.04.

2.05.

2.06.

2.07.

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to
and form part of this Agreement.

Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.

ARTICLE II — LOAN
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of
sixty-two million Euro, (EUR 62,000,000), (“Loan”), to assist in financing Part 1
and Part 2 of the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”).

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.

The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.

The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Fixed Spread or such rate as may
apply following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General
Conditions.

The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.

ARTICLE II — PROJECT

The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall cause Part 1 and Part 2 of the Project to be carried out by
4.01.

4.02.

5.01.

aie

6.01.

6.02.

lh

the Project Implementing Entity (PIE), in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK

The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that the
Project Implementing Entity’s Legislation has been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability
of the PIE to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that the
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a
period of ninety (90) days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to
the Borrower.

ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:

(a) The Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower
and the PIE.

(b) The PIE has adopted the Operational Manual, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank.

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and twenty (120) days after
the Signature Date.

ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Finance or any successor thereto.
The Borrower’s Address is:

Ministry of Finance

16 Gorgasali Street

0114 Tbilisi

Georgia

Email: publicdebt@mof.ge

995-32-2261461
6.03. The Bank’s Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America

Email: mtembon@worldbank.org

1-202-477-6391

AGREED as of the Signature Date.

GEORGIA

   

By
Authorized Representative

Name: 1 Vane Matehavaria ni

Tite: Minister iNa
Date: June. Ag 2019

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

a Wer omy

Authorized Representative
Name: Mercy Mivara Tembor
Title: Rosiowal Didectan fra South Cousca rs

Date: Suwe (¢ AD \9
_4-

SCHEDULE 1

Project Description

The objectives of the Project are to increase electricity supply reliability in the

western part of Georgia, achieve the financial viability of the PIE, and help it access long-
term commercial financing.

The Project consists of the following parts:

Part 1: Strengthening of the power transmission network, including through the

(a)

(b)

following:

construction of: (i) Jvari-Tskaltubo 500 kV power transmission line and (ii)
Tskaltubo 500/220 kV substation; and

support to the Project Implementing Entity (PIE) for Project implementation
including through the provision of technical assistance comprising technical
supervision of civil works, contract management, acceptance of works and
compliance with environmental and social requirements under the Project.

Part 2: Support to the financial recovery of the PIE and preparatory work to access

(a)

(b)

the capital markets, including through the following:

Support to Financial Recovery Through:

(i) development of a mechanism to hedge the foreign exchange (FX) risk;
(ii) upgrade of Wide Area Monitoring System (WAMS) software and
hardware;

(iii) | acquisition of servers for balancing market operations;

(iv) acquisition of a cyber security system software and hardware;

(v) development of a black-out system restoration support software;

(vi) carrying out of specialized technical and economic studies for purposes of
financing, operation, planning, and management of the energy sector; and

(vii) carrying out of capacity building activities and Training to PIE, including
on maintenance of assets and planning of network investments; labor
safety and inspection; electricity profiling for wholesale market opening;
and environmental and social management system.

Preparatory Work to Access Capital Markets

Provision of advice including for the purpose of supporting PIE to obtain a credit
rating by an internationally recognized rating agency.
-5-

(c) Support for the execution of the transaction to access the capital markets.
Provision of advice, including through the hiring of a financial and legal advisor,

to carry out the transaction for the PIE to secure a syndicated loan, issue bonds, or
complete an initial public offering (IPO).

Part 3: Raising long term commercial financing

 
-6-

SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Section I. Implementation Arrangements

Institutional Arrangements

The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity (PIE) to carry out Part 1
and Part 2 of the Project in accordance with this Agreement, the Project
Agreement, the Subsidiary Agreement and the Project Operational Manual and
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any provision of said Manual without
the prior written approval of the Bank.

For the purposes of assisting the PIE in the implementation of Part 1 and Part 2 of
the Project, and in order to ensure the proper coordination of the execution of Part |
and Part 2 of the Project, the Borrower, shall cause the PIE to maintain its
International Projects and Reporting Department (IPRD),throughout the duration
of the Project, with adequate resources and facilities, and professional staff in
adequate numbers whose qualifications, experience and terms of reference shall be
acceptable to the Bank.

Subsidiary Agreement

To facilitate the carrying out of Part 1 and Part 2 of the Project by the PIE, the
Borrower, shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to the PIE under a
subsidiary agreement between the Ministry of Finance (MOF), on behalf of the
Borrower, and the PIE under terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank (“Subsidiary Agreement”) which shall include, without limitation the
following terms and conditions.

(a) the PIE shall utilize the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with this
Agreement and the Project Agreement;

(b) the amount of the Loan shall be made available to the PIE in Euros or any
other currency that may be selected by the MOF, for the Loan from time
to time in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.05 of this
Agreement;

(c) the principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid by the PIE to MOF in
Euros or any other currency that may be selected by the MOF, for the Loan
from time to time in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.05 of this
Agreement to the Borrower in semi-annual installments over 25 years,
including a grace period of 14 years; and
oi

(d) the PIE shall pay (i) interest on the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at the rate applicable from
time to time to the Loan pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.05 of this
Agreement; and (ii) pay a commitment charge on the unwithdrawn Loan
balance determined according to the provisions of Section 2.04 of this
Agreement; and (iii) the amount equal the Front-end Fee allocated to
Category (2) of the Table under Section III.A.1 of this Schedule to be
deducted from the Loan amount made available to the PIE.

The Borrower, shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish
the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Agreement or any of its
provisions.

Environmental and Social Standards

The Borrower shall, and shall cause the PIE to, ensure that Part 1 and Part 2 of the
Project is carried out in accordance with the Environmental and Social Standards,
in a manner acceptable to the Bank.

Without limitation upon paragraph 1 above, the Borrower shall, and shall cause
the PIE to ensure that Part 1 and Part 2 of the Project is implemented in accordance
with the Environmental and Social Commitment Plan (““ESCP”), in a manner
acceptable to the Bank. To this end, the Borrower shall, and shall cause the PIE to,
ensure that:

(a) the measures and actions specified in the ESCP are implemented with due
diligence and efficiency, and as further specified in the ESCP;

(b) sufficient funds are available to cover the costs of implementing the ESCP;

(c) policies, procedures and qualified staff are maintained to enable it to
implement the ESCP, as further specified in the ESCP; and

(d) the ESCP or any provision thereof, is not amended, revised or waived,
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree in writing and the Borrower has,
thereafter, disclosed the revised ESCP.

In case of any inconsistencies between the ESCP and the provisions of this
Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.
-8-

3. The Borrower shall, and shall cause the PIE to:

(a) take all measures necessary on its part to collect, compile, and furnish to
the Bank through regular reports, with the frequency specified in the
ESCP, and promptly in a separate report or reports, if so requested by the
Bank, information on the status of compliance with the ESCP and the
management tools and instruments referred to therein, all such reports in
form and substance acceptable to the Bank, setting out, inter alia: (i) the
status of implementation of the ESCP; (ii) conditions, if any, which
interfere or threaten to interfere with the implementation of the ESCP; and
(iii) corrective and preventive measures taken or required to be taken to
address such conditions; and

(b) promptly notify the Bank of any incident or accident related to or having
an impact on Part | and Part 2 of the Project which has, or is likely to have,
a significant adverse effect on the environment, the affected communities,
the public or workers, including, in accordance with the ESCP, the
instruments referenced therein and the Environmental and Social
Standards.

4. The Borrower shall, and shall cause the PIE to, maintain and publicize the
availability of a grievance mechanism, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank, to hear and determine fairly and in good faith all complaints raised in
relation to Part 1 and Part 2 of the Project, and take all measures necessary to
implement the determinations made by such mechanism in a manner satisfactory
to the Bank.

Section II. Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation

The Borrower shall cause the PIE to furnish to the Bank each Project Report not
later than forty five (45) days after the end of each calendar semester, covering the calendar
semester.

Section III. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. General

Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and
in accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the Borrower may
withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to: (a) finance Eligible Expenditures; and (b) pay: (i) the
Front-end Fee; and (ii) each Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar premium; in the
amount allocated and, if applicable, up to the percentage set forth against each Category of
the following table:
     
  
 
      
 

   
   
 
 

  
  
 
 

Category Amount of the Loan Percentage of
Allocated Expenditures to be
(expressed in EURO) financed

(inclusive of Taxes)

(1) Goods, works, non-

consulting services,

consulting services,

and Training for Part 1 61,845,000

and Part 2 of the

Project
(2) Front-end Fee 155,000

Section 4.05 (c) of the

(3) Interest Rate Cap or
General Conditions

Interest Rate Collar

premium
B. Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

    

  

Amount payable pursuant
to Section 2.03 of this

Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions

  
    
       
  

  

Amount due pursuant to

  
 
  

 

l. Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A above, no withdrawal shall be made for
payments made prior to the date of this Agreement

2 The Closing Date is December 31, 2024.

Section IV. Other Undertakings
A. The Borrower shall cause the PIE to:

(a) ensure that it follows the Rehabilitation Plan agreed with MOF in order to
secure the end of the rehabilitation regime procedure of the PIE by the end
of the third quarter of Fiscal Year 2020, and that a copy of the court
decision confirming the end of the rehabilitation regime procedure of the
PIE is submitted to the Bank within one month of its issuance;
(b)

(c)

-10-

prepare by the end of the second quarter of Fiscal Year 2020 and thereafter
implement, under terms satisfactory to the Bank, a Debt Management
Strategy, which includes specific financial targets, acceptable to the Bank,
and shall not amend or modify any provisions of said Strategy without the
prior approval of the Bank;

ensure that the PIE and EnergoTrans have no cash deficit by the end of
Fiscal Year 2020.

For the purposes of paragraph A above:

(a)

(b)

(Cc)

(d)

(e)

Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to value,
in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in another currency,
such valuation shall be made on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of
exchange at which such other currency is, at the time of such valuation,
obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of
such rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.

The term “cash deficit” means the difference between the cash revenues
of PIE and EnergoTrans and the costs on accrual basis.

The term “cash revenues” means the cash flows from operating activities
derived from principal revenue-generating activities of the PIE and
EnergoTrans and as reflected in the IFRS compliant annual audited
financial statements of the PIE and EnergoTrans.

The term “accrual basis” costs means the operations and maintenance,
salary, interest and principal, taxes, and other operating costs required for
core business operations of GSE.

The term “IFRS” means International Financial Reporting Standards in
effect.
-ll-

SCHEDULE 3
Commitment-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage
of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date
(“Installment Share’’).
Level Principal Repayments

Principal Payment Date Installment Share

On each May 15 and November 15

   
    

    
 

   

Beginning November 15, 2033 4.55%

through November 15, 2043

On May 15, 2044 4.45%

   
 
« PE «

APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

l.

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix
to the General Conditions, the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud
and Corruption ‘in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and
Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011 and as of
July 1, 2016.

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section III.A of Schedule 2
to this Agreement.

“Debt Management Strategy” means a strategy to be prepared and implemented
by PIE in accordance with the terms of Section IV A (b) of the Schedule 2 to this
Agreement to determine the financing structure necessary to meet the PIE’s
investment and working capital requirement while ensuring debt sustainability,
including maintaining identified/selected solvency and liquidity targets.

“EnergoTrans” means the Limited Liability Company established pursuant to
Order No. 1-3/589 of the Ministry of State Property Management of Georgia, dated
August 16, 2002.

“Environmental and Social Commitment Plan” or the acronym “ESCP” means the
Project Implementing Entity’s environmental and social commitment plan,
acceptable to the Bank, dated April 24, 2019, which sets out a summary of the
material measures and actions to address the potential environmental and social
risks and impacts of the Project, including the timing of the actions and measures,
institutional, staffing, training, monitoring and reporting arrangements, and any
instruments to be prepared thereunder; as the ESCP may be revised from time to
time, with prior written agreement of the Bank, and such term includes any annexes
or schedules to such plan.

“Environmental and Social Standards” means, collectively: (i) “Environmental
and Social Standard 1: Assessment and Management of Environmental and Social
Risks and Impacts”; (ii) “Environmental and Social Standard 2: Labor and
Working Conditions”; (iii) “Environmental and Social Standard 3: Resource
Efficiency and Pollution Prevention and Management”; (iv) “Environmental and
Social Standard 4: Community Health and Safety”; (v) “Environmental and Social
Standard 5: Land Acquisition, Restrictions on Land Use and Involuntary
Resettlement”; (vi) “Environmental and Social Standard 6: Biodiversity
Conservation and Sustainable Management of Living Natural Resources”;
(vii) “Environmental and Social Standard 7: Indigenous Peoples/Sub-Saharan
Historically Underserved Traditional Local Communities”; (viii) “Environmental
and Social Standard 8: Cultural Heritage”; (ix) “Environmental and Social
Rha

12.

Ls

14.

-13-

Standard 9: Financial Intermediaries”; (x) “Environmental and Social Standard 10:
Stakeholder Engagement and Information Disclosure”; effective on
October 1, 2018, as published by the Bank at

http://www.worldbank.org/en/projects-operations/environmental-and-social-

framework.
“Fiscal Year” means the Borrower’s fiscal year from January 1 to December 31.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project
Financing”, dated December 14, 2018.

“Ministry of Finance” or “MOF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance, or its
successor thereof.

“Operational Manual” means the Project Operational Manual to be adopted by the
PIE pursuant to Section 5.01(b) of this Agreement, setting forth the operational,
administrative and fiduciary responsibilities, procedures and rules for the
implementation of the Project, data collection and reporting, and which includes a
manual of financial management procedures that sets out procedures for Project
accounting, reporting and audit, disbursements, flow of funds and management of
the designated accounts as the same may be amended from time to time with the
agreement of the Bank.

“Procurement Regulations” means, for purposes of paragraph 85 of the Appendix
to the General Conditions, the “World Bank Procurement Regulations for IPF
Borrowers”, dated July 2016, revised November 2017 and August 2018.

“Project Implementing Entity”, “PIE” and “GSE” mean Georgian State
Electrosystem a joint stock company established pursuant to Order No. 1-3/810 of
the Ministry of State Property Management of Georgia dated November 8, 2002,
or any successor thereto.

“Project Implementing Entity’s Legislation” means Order No. 1-3/810 of the
Ministry of State Property Management of Georgia, dated November 8, 2002
registered by the Resolution of Vake-Saburtalo district court on
November 12, 2002 and operating by virtue of perpetual electricity transmission
license No.12-004 and dispatching license No.13-004 obtained on
December 20, 2002.

“Rehabilitation Plan” means the set of financial and operational improvement
measures, agreed to by PIE, and approved by the Minister of Finance on
November 20, 2008.
15.

17.

-14-

“Signature Date” means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the
Bank signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to “the
date of the Loan Agreement” in the General Conditions.

“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section 5.01 (a) and
Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement entered into by the MOF, on behalf
of the Borrower, and PIE, pursuant to which the MOF, shall make the proceeds of
the Loan available to the PIE.

"Training" means Project related study tours, training courses, seminars,
workshops and other training activities, including costs of training materials, space
and equipment rental, travel, accommodation and per diem costs of trainees and
trainers, trainers' fees, and other training related miscellaneous costs.
