Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

 

 

LOAN NUMBER 8906-BA

Loan Agreement

(Additional Financing for the Energy Efficiency Project)

between
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
LOAN NUMBER 8906-BA

LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between BOSNIA AND

HERZEGOVINA (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing additional financing for activities
related to the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Borrower and
the Bank hereby agree as follows:

1.02.

2.02.

203.

2.04.

ia).

2.06.

ahs

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to and form
part of this Agreement.

Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.

ARTICLE II — LOAN
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of twenty seven million two hundred
seventy six thousand nine hundred eighty nine Euro (€27,276,989), as such amount may
be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion (“Loan”), to assist in

financing the project described in Schedule | to this Agreement (“Project”).

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section III of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.

The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.

The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Fixed Spread or such rate as may apply
following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General Conditions.

The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.

ARTICLE II — PROJECT
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the

Borrower shall cause: (a) Part A of the Project to be carried out by the Federation; and
(b) Part B of the Project to be carried out by RS, all in accordance with the provisions of
4.01.

4.02.

5.01.

6.01.

6.02.

Article V of the General Conditions, Schedule 2 to this Agreement and the Project
Agreements.

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK

The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following: namely, that either Entity’s
legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect
materially and adversely the ability of said Entity to perform any of its obligations under
the relevant Project Agreement or Subsidiary Agreement.

The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following: namely, that the event
specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of 60 days
after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower.

ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and eighty (180) days after the
Signature Date.

ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Finance and Treasury.
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Borrower’s address is:
Ministry of Finance and Treasury
Trg BiH 1
71000 Sarajevo
Bosnia and Herzegovina; and

(b) the Borrower’s Electronic Address is:

Facsimile: E-mail:
(387-33) 202-930 trezorbih@mft.gov.ba
 

6.03.

For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Bank’s address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development

1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America; and

(b) the Bank’s Electronic Address is:

Telex: Facsimile: E-mail:

248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391 lvangelder@worldbank.org
64145(MCI)

 
AGREED as of the Signature Date.

BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA

 

Name: VIEK°UCAY BEVANO4

Title: A/W/STER OF F/iVANCE AM) TRE ALU ky

Date: VAVUARY 18 | old

aca IONAL\ BANK FOR,

    
  

itle: Coun7rey NAVA Fae
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to improve energy efficiency in public sector buildings, and
to support the development and implementation of scalable energy efficiency financing models.
The Project consists of the following parts:

PART A. THE FEDERATION OF BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA

i Energy Efficiency Investments in Public Facilities
L Supporting energy efficiency Sub-projects.
2s Implementing a revolving financing model through, inter alia, reinvesting repayments

from Participating Municipalities or Cantons for energy efficiency Sub-projects financed by the
Credit or the Loan in energy efficiency investments in public facilities.

Il. Support for the Development of Scalable Financing Mechanisms and Capacity
Building

Supporting the development of scalable energy efficiency financing mechanisms,
strengthening local market capacity, improving the energy efficiency enabling environment and
providing assistance to increase public awareness on energy efficiency.

III. Project Management Costs

Project management by the Federation PIU, including Project audits, through the provision
of Incremental Operating Costs, Training, and consultants’ services.

PART B. THE REPUBLIKA SRPSKA

I. Energy Efficiency Investments in Public Facilities
l. Supporting energy efficiency Sub-projects.
2 Implementing a revolving financing model through, inter alia: (i) capturing energy cost

savings generated by energy efficiency Sub-projects financed by the Loan and reinvesting them in
energy efficiency Sub-projects for the period and under the parameters set forth in the OM; and (i1)
supporting the operation of a revolving financing mechanism within the EE Fund.
Il. Support for the Development of Scalable Financing Mechanisms and Capacity
Building

Supporting the development of scalable energy efficiency financing mechanisms,
strengthening local market capacity, improving the energy efficiency enabling environment and
providing assistance to increase public awareness on energy efficiency.

III. Project Management Costs

Project management by the RS PIU, including Project audits, through the provision of
Incremental Operating Costs, Training, and consultants’ services.
SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Section I. Implementation Arrangements

Institutional Arrangements

The Borrower shall cause each Entity to maintain a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) at
all times during the implementation of the Project, with sufficient resources, competent
staff in adequate numbers and responsibilities, and operated based on adequate procedures,
all acceptable to the Bank and as set forth in their respective OMs.

For purposes of carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall cause the Entities, not later
than December 15 of each year during Project implementation, to prepare and submit to
the Bank an Annual Work Plan (AWP) for the following year, and thereafter regularly
update it as needed, including, inter alia, the proposed investment plan, its related
expenditures and the sources of financing needed to implement the Project activities under
the AWP, acceptable to the Bank.

Subsidiary Agreements

To facilitate the carrying out of Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall make part of the
proceeds of the Loan, allocated from time to time to Category (1) available to the
Federation under a subsidiary agreement between the Borrower and the Federation, under
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank (“the Federation Subsidiary Agreement”).

To facilitate the carrying out of Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall make part of the
proceeds of the Loan, allocated from time to time to Category (2) available to RS under a
subsidiary agreement between the Borrower and the RS, under terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank (“the RS Subsidiary Agreement”).

The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under each Subsidiary
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Agreements or any of
their provisions.

Safeguards
The Borrower shall cause the Federation and the RS:

(a) to carry out the Project in accordance with the Environmental Management
Framework (the “EMF’”);

(b) prior to carrying out any activities or Sub-projects, to prepare site-specific
Environmental Management Plan(s) (“EMPs”) in accordance with the EMF, in
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, and to implement said activities or
Sub-projects in accordance with the respective EMPs;
(c) to ensure that no Project activities and no Sub-projects under Parts A.I.1 and B.I.1
of the Project involve Resettlement; and

(d) to ensure that the terms of reference of any consultancy in respect to the Project
shall be satisfactory to the Bank following its review thereof and, to that end, such
terms of reference shall duly incorporate the requirements of the Bank’s Safeguard
Policies then in force, as applied to the advice conveyed through such consulting
services.

Section II. Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
l. The Borrower shall cause each Entity to furnish to the Bank each Project Report not later

than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar semester, covering the calendar
semester.

2. The Borrower shall cause each Entity to furnish to the Bank, not later than six (6) months
after the Closing Date, the report and plan set forth in Section 5.08(c) of the General
Conditions.

Section III. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

A. General.

Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and in
accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the Borrower may
withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to: (a) finance Eligible Expenditures; and (b) pay: (i)
the Front-end Fee; and (ii) each Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar premium; in the
amount allocated and, if applicable, up to the percentage set forth against each Category of
the following table:

Amount of the Loan

  
     
    
  
  
   

  
     
    
  
  
  

  
 
   

Percentage of Expenditures

    
 

      
  
   
 

   

    

Allocated to be financed
expressed in EUR inclusive of Taxes
(1) Goods, works, non- 16,325,278 100% or such percentage of

consulting services,
consulting services, Training
and Operating Costs for Part
A of the Project

Eligible Expenditures set forth
by the respective AWP in
accordance with the
provisions set forth in Section
III.B.2 of this Schedule
100% or such percentage of
Eligible Expenditures set forth
by the respective AWP in
accordance with the
provisions set forth in Section
III.B.2 of this Schedule

           
     
  
  
   

      
  
   
 

   

    
  

     
  
 
  

(2) Goods, works, non- 10,883,519
consulting services,
consulting services, Training
and Operating Costs for Part B

of the Project

       

    
   
(3) Front-end Fee

   
  
    

     
         
    
    
     
 

Amount payable pursuant to
Section 2.03 of _ this
Agreement in accordance with
Section 2.07 (b) of the General
Conditions
Amount due pursuant to
Section 4.05 (c) of the General
Conditions

68,192

27,216,989

     
      

   
 

(4) Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar premium

TOTAL AMOUNT

   

B. Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.
l. Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A above, no withdrawal shall be made:
(a) for payments made prior to the Signature Date, except that withdrawals up to an

aggregate amount not to exceed Euro 5,000,000 may be made for payments made
prior to this date but on or after the date falling after twelve months prior to the
Signature Date, for Eligible Expenditures.

(b) under Category (1) unless:

(1) the Federation Project Agreement has been executed by its parties;

(ii) the Federation Subsidiary Agreement has been executed by its parties; and

(c) under Category (2) unless:
(i) the RS Project Agreement has been executed by its parties; and
(11) the RS Subsidiary Agreement has been executed by its parties;
2, Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of the table under Part A of this Section, the sum
of the Bank’s financing percentage of Eligible Expenditures under the loan combined with the
financing percentage provided by the Borrower or by any other entity participating in the Project
shall equal 100% of each Eligible Expenditure.

a The Closing Date is February 29, 2024

Section IV. Other Undertakings

1. The Financing Agreement is hereby updated as set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 3
Commitment-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage of the
total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date (“Installment Share”).

On each May 15 and November 15

Beginning November 15, 2025 2%
through May 15, 2050

 
SCHEDULE 4

Update to the Financing Agreement

The Financing Agreement is hereby updated as follows:

de

(a)

Schedule | of the Financing Agreement is hereby updated to read as set forth in
Schedule | to this Agreement.

Section I.A of Schedule 2 to the Financing Agreement is hereby updated to read
as set forth in Section I.A.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

Section I.C of Schedule 2 to the Financing Agreement is hereby deleted, and the
remaining sections are renumbered accordingly.

Paragraph (e) of renumbered Section I.D (formerly Section I.E. Safeguards) of
Schedule 2 to the Financing Agreement is hereby updated to read as set forth in
Section I.C.1(e) of this Agreement.

Section II of Schedule 2 to the Financing Agreement is hereby updated to read as
set forth in Section II to this Agreement.

The Appendix to the Financing Agreement is hereby updated as follows:

The Following definitions are hereby added and placed in alphabetical order (and
the remaining definitions are hereby reorganized to maintain alphabetical order):

“ “Agreement of Understanding” means each one of the agreements or other
adequate arrangements referred to in Section I.D.2(a) of the Schedule to the
Federation Project Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time by
agreement with the Bank.”

“ “Bank’s Safeguard Policies” means the Operational Policies (OPs) and Bank
Procedures (BPs) of the Bank, namely OP/BP 4.01 (Environmental Assessment),
OP/BP 4.04 (Natural Habitats), OP/BP 4.09 (Pest Management), OP/BP 4.10
(Indigenous Peoples), OP/BP 4.11 (Physical Cultural Resources), OP/BP 4.12
(Involuntary Resettlement), OP/BP 4.36 (Forests), and OP/BP 4.37 (Safety of
Dams); which can be found at https://policies.worldbank.org.”

“ “FE Fund’ means the RS Energy Efficiency Fund established pursuant to the
Act on Fund And Financing of Environmental Protection of the RS, published on
the RS Official Gazette on November 25, 2011.”

“Operations Manual” or “OM” means either the manual dated August 27, 2018
adopted by the Federation, or the manual dated August 23, 2018 adopted by the
RS, referred to in Section I.C.1 of the Schedule to the relevant Project Agreement,
as the same may be amended from time to time by agreement with the Bank.”
(b)

“ “Project Implementation Unit’ or “PIU” means either the RS PIU or the
Federation PIU, as the case may be.”

“ “Project Agreements” means the Federation Project Agreement and the RS
Project Agreement.”

“ “Sub-Agreement” means each one of the agreements referred to in Section
I.D.2(b) of the Schedule to the Federation Project Agreement, and in Section I.D.2
of the Schedule to the RS Project Agreement, as the same may be amended from
time to time by agreement with the Bank.”

The Following definitions are hereby updated to read as follows:

“ “Federation Project Steering Committee” or “Federation PSC” means the
Project Steering Committee established by the Federation’s government, with
roles, responsibilities and composition satisfactory to the Association, and
comprising of the relevant ministries and agencies of the Federation.”

“ “Participating Municipality or Canton” is a municipality or Canton located in
the Federation and selected in accordance with the OM of the Federation for the
purposes of providing support for energy efficiency investments for specific Sub-
projects, collectively referred to as “Participating Municipalities or Cantons”.”

“ “RS Project Steering Committee” or “RS PSC” means the Project Steering
Committee established by the RS’s government, with roles, responsibilities and
composition satisfactory to the Association and comprising of the relevant
ministries and agencies of RS.”
APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

l.

“Agreement of Understanding” means each one of the agreements or other adequate
arrangements referred to in Section I.D.2(a) of the Schedule to the Federation Project
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time by agreement with the Bank.

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and Corruption
in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006
and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.

“AWP” or “Annual Work Plan” means any of the Borrower’s annual work plans referred
to in Section I.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. Each AWP may be amended from
time to time in a manner acceptable to the Bank.

“Bank’s Safeguard Policies” means the Operational Policies (OPs) and Bank Procedures
(BPs) of the Bank, namely OP/BP 4.01 (Environmental Assessment), OP/BP 4.04 (Natural
Habitats), OP/BP 4.09 (Pest Management), OP/BP 4.10 (Indigenous Peoples), OP/BP 4.11
(Physical Cultural Resources), OP/BP 4.12 (Involuntary Resettlement), OP/BP 4.36
(Forests), and OP/BP 4.37 (Safety of Dams); which can be found at

https://policies.worldbank.org.

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section III.A of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.

“Credit” means the credit provided under the Financing Agreement.

“EE Fund” means the RS Energy Efficiency Fund established pursuant to the Act on Fund
And Financing of Environmental Protection of the RS, published on the RS Official
Gazette on November 25, 2011.

“Entity” means the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina or the Republika Srpska (as
these are hereafter defined), as the case may be, and “Entities” refers to the Federation and
the RS collectively.

“Environmental Management Framework” or “EMF” means the Environmental
Management Framework adopted by the Federation on September 19, 2013 and the RS on
October 24, 2013, disclosed in the World Bank’s InfoShop on November 6, 2013, and
satisfactory to the Bank, describing the rules, guidelines and procedures to assess
environmental impacts of the Project’s activities and defining measures to reduce, mitigate
or offset adverse environmental impacts and enhance the positive impacts of the Project’s
activities, as the same shall be amended from time to time with the prior approval of the
Bank.

“Environmental Management Plan(s)” or “EMP” means a site-specific Environmental
Management Plan comprised of environmental mitigation plan and environmental
monitoring plan to be prepared and adopted by the Federation and/or the RS pursuant to
the EMF, in conformity with the provisions of the OM and satisfactory to the Bank, and to
18.

IY.

be implemented by the Federation and/or the RS in accordance with their provisions,
wherein are set forth specific details of measures to manage identified or potential
environmental risks and to mitigate, reduce and/or offset adverse environmental impacts
associated with the implementation of activities under the Project, together with an
environmental and social baseline for each site, details of the relevant environmental
legislative framework, adequate institutional, monitoring and reporting arrangements
capable of ensuring proper implementation of, and regular feedback on compliance with,
its terms, as the same may be amended and supplemented from time to time with the Bank’s
prior written approval.

“Federation” means the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, a constitutive part of the
Borrower, and includes any successor thereto, and a Project Implementing Entity for
purposes of the General Conditions.

“Federation MPP” means the Federation’s Ministry of Physical Planning, or any successor
thereto.

“Federation Project Agreement’ means the agreement between the Bank and the
Federation for this Project, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Federation Project Agreement.

“Federation PIU’ means the project implementation unit established by the Federation
MPP pursuant to the conclusion of the government of the Federation dated May 23, 2013,
to carry out Part A of the Project.

“Federation Project Steering Committee” or “Federation PSC” means the Project
Steering Committee established by the Federation’s government, with roles,
responsibilities and composition satisfactory to the Bank, and comprising of the relevant
ministries and agencies of the Federation.

“Federation Subsidiary Agreement’ means the agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and the Federation, referred to in Schedule 2, Section I.B.1 of this Agreement,
as the same may be amended from time to time.

“Financing Agreement’ means the agreement between the Borrower and the International
Development Association dated October 29, 2014, as such agreement may be amended
from time to time. “Financing Agreement” includes all appendices, schedules and
agreements supplemental to the Financing Agreement.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project Financing”, dated July 14,
2017, with the modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.

“Incremental Operating Costs’ means reasonable incremental expenses incurred on
account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, including audit, office
supplies, publication of procurement notices, vehicle operation, office and equipment
maintenance and repair, communication, translation and interpretation, travel and
Supervision costs, and other miscellaneous costs directly associated with Project, but
excluding salaries of officials and employees of the Borrower, the Federation of Bosnia
and Herzegovina, and the Republika Srpska.
20.

hs

a2

23.

24.

2:

26.

oi

28.

pe

30.

31.

a2.

“Legislation of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina” means the legislation
establishing and governing the Federation.

“Legislation of the Republika Srpska” means the legislation establishing and governing
the Republika Srpska.

“Operations Manual” or “OM” means either the manual dated August 27, 2018 adopted
by the Federation, or the manual dated August 23, 2018 adopted by the RS, referred to in
Section I.C.1 of the Schedule to the relevant Project Agreement, as the same may be
amended from time to time by agreement with the Bank.

“Original Federation Project Agreement’ means the agreement entered into between the
Bank and the Federation on November 24, 2015.

“Original Project’ means the project described in Schedule 1 to the Financing Agreement.

“Original RS Project Agreement’ means the agreement entered into between the Bank
and the RS on March 18, 2015.

“Participating Municipality or Canton” is a municipality or Canton located in the
Federation and selected in accordance with the OM of the Federation for the purposes of
providing support for energy efficiency investments for specific Sub-projects, collectively
referred to as “Participating Municipalities or Cantons”.

“Procurement Regulations” means, for purposes of paragraph 85 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the “World Bank Procurement Regulations for IPF Borrowers”, dated
July 2016, revised November 2017.

“Project Implementation Unit’ or “PIU” means either the RS PIU or the Federation PIU,
as the case may be.

“Project Agreements” means the Federation Project Agreement and the RS Project
Agreement.

“Republika Srpska” or “RS” means Republika Srpska, a constitutive part of the Borrower,
and a Project Implementing Entity for purposes of the General Conditions.

“Resettlement” means an act of involuntary taking of land under the Project, which causes
affected persons to have their: (a) standard of living adversely affected; or (b) right, title or
interest in any house, land (including premises, agricultural and grazing land) or any other
fixed or movable asset acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (c) access to
productive assets adversely affected, temporarily or permanently; or (d) business,
occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely affected, temporarily or
permanently.

“RS MSP” means the Republika Srpska’s Ministry of Spatial Planning, Civil Engineering
and Ecology, or any successor thereto.
ao:

34.

35.

36.

37.

38.

39.

40.

41.

42.

“RS Project Agreement’ means the agreement between the Bank and the Republika Srpska
for this Project, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules and agreements supplemental to the RS Project Agreement.

“RS PIU” means the project implementation unit established by the RS’ government
within the RS MSP to carry out Part B of the Project.

“RS Project Steering Committee” or “RS PSC” means the Project Steering Committee
established by the RS’s government, with roles, responsibilities and composition
satisfactory to the Bank and comprising of the relevant ministries and agencies of RS.

“RS Subsidiary Agreement’ means the agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and the Republika Srpska, referred to in Schedule 2, Section I of this Agreement, as the
same may be amended from time to time.

“Signature Date” means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the Bank
signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to “the date of the Loan
Agreement” in the General Conditions.

“Sub-Agreement’ means each one of the agreements referred to in Section I.D.2 of the
Schedule to the RS Project Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time by
agreement with the Bank.

“Sub-Contract” means each one of the agreements referred to in Section I.D.2(b) of the
Schedule to the Federation Project Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to
time by agreement with the Bank.

“Sub-projects” means energy efficiency investments financed under Parts A.I. and B.I. of
the Project and to be selected in accordance with the eligibility criteria set forth in the OMs
and satisfactory to the Bank.

“Subsidiary Agreements” means the Federation Subsidiary Agreement and the RS
Subsidiary Agreement.

“Training” means all expenditures related to training activities under the Project such as
training workshops, seminars, study tours and local training and including fees, travel costs
and per-diem allowances for the trainers and trainees, cost of training materials, space and
equipment rental, and other related expenditures approved by the Bank.

Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions

The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:

Section 9.01 (Conditions of Effectiveness of Legal Agreements) is hereby amended as
follows:

“The Legal Agreements shall not become effective until the Loan Party and at least
one of the Project Implementing Entities confirms and the Bank is satisfied that the
conditions specified in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this Section are met.
(a) The execution and delivery of each Legal Agreement on behalf of the Loan Party
and said Project Implementing Entity which is a party to such Legal Agreement have
been duly authorized by all necessary actions and delivered on behalf of such party,
and the relevant Legal Agreement is legally binding upon such party in accordance
with its terms.

(b) If the Bank so requests, the condition of the Borrower (other than the Member
Country) or of said Project Implementing Entity, as represented and warranted to the
Bank at the date of the Legal Agreements, has not undergone any material adverse
change after such date.

(c) Each condition specified in the Loan Agreement as a condition of its effectiveness
has occurred. (“Additional Condition of Effectiveness”’).”
