Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

LOAN NUMBER 8917-AO

 

Loan Agreement

(Agricultural Productivity Program for Southern Africa Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
LOAN NUMBER 8917-AO

LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT dated Apa a [1 2019, between the
REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA (“Borrower”) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR

RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).

1.01.

1.02.

AOL.

2.02.

2.03.

2.04.

BOD:

2.06.

2.07.

mlhs

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to
and form part of this Agreement.

Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.

ARTICLE II — LOAN
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of twenty-five million United
States of America Dollars ($ 25,000,000), as such amount may be converted from
time to time through a Currency Conversion (“Loan”), to assist in financing the

project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”).

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section
II of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.

The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.

The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Fixed Spread or such rate as may
apply following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General
Conditions. . |

The Payment Dates are January 15 and July 15 in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.

ARTICLE If] — PROJECT

The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall carry out Respective Parts of the Project and cause
4.01.

4.02.

4.03.

5.01.°

5.02.

5.03.

“s

CCARDESA to carry out its Respective Parts of the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Agreement, all in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions and, Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consist of the following, namely, that
the Borrower has prepared and adopted the Project Implementation Manual, in
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the Signature Date.
For purposes of Section 9.05 (b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the

obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement (other than those providing for
payment obligations) shall terminate is twenty (20) years after the Signature Date.

ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
The Borrower’s Representative is its minister responsible for finance.
The Borrower’s Address is:
Ministério das Financas
Largo da Mutamba
1235 Luanda, Angola
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) the Bank’s address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America; and
(b) the Bank’s Electronic Address is:

Telex: Facsimile:

248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
3.
AGREED as of the Signature Date.

REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA

By ih Te |

Authorized Representative

Name: Bea giagle Machen M wy Wer

Title: Mumolor bf FE , NENCL
Date: R pact [2 9 20 lA

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

By

    

orized Representative

| Name: ELiopheth Harbors
Title: Lonny Dinicler
pate:_ pk id , 2014
-4-

SCHEDULE 1
Project Description

The objective of the Project is to increase the availability of improved agricultural

technologies in the Participating Countries in the SADC Region.

Part A:

l.

Part B:

The Project consists of the following parts:
Technology Generation and Dissemination

Supporting technology generation and dissemination activities associated with the
agricultural commodities targeted by the Project, including, but not limited to:
(i) agricultural research and development of regional priorities and related
community farming systems, including the carrying out of agricultural research
and development Sub-projects; (ii) technology dissemination within and across the
Participating Countries to enable scaling up of innovation; (iii) expansion of seed
multiplication capacity of the Borrower to increase the availability of seeds for
further scaling up of agricultural activities; and (iv) technology dissemination Sub-
projects focused entirely on technology dissemination by extension services,
including by outsourcing dissemination through civil society networks, private
sector collaborators, and other stakeholders.

Strengthening the Institutional and Enabling Environment for Technology
Adoption

Supporting activities to strengthen the core capacity of RCoLs , including, but not
limited to: (i) upgrading of research infrastructure including physical
infrastructure, farms, laboratories, office equipment, and information technology
and knowledge management systems; (11) upgrading of infrastructure for sanitary
and phytossanitary (SPS) management and regulatory systems; (iii) improving
RCoLs’ administration and performance management systems; (iv) developing
human capital by providing scientific training at the post graduate level and
upgrading agricultural research skills through short courses or targeted training;
(v) strengthening seed production capacity, seed regulatory functions, and related
public services; and (vi) improving national research regulatory system to facilitate
NARS functionality and implementation of research and dissemination activities.

Supporting agricultural research and development policy analysis and dialogue,
including, but not limited to: relevant analytical work, policy dialogue or policy
harmonization activities in key areas that affect agricultural research and
development at the national and regional levels, with a focus on analysis of
relevant policies and regulations on intellectual property rights, operationalization
of the SADC’s harmonized seed regulatory system, and implementation of relevant
biosafety regulations.
-5-

Part C: Contingent Emergency Response

Providing immediate response to an Eligible Crisis or Emergency, as needed.

Part D: Project management, monitoring and evaluation, and Regional Coordination

Li

Supporting national level research coordination and management, including, but
not limited to: relevant capacity building activities related to Project planning,
implementation, management, monitoring and evaluation, safeguards compliance,
and regional engagement.

Supporting implementation of the regional M&E framework including, but not
limited to: setting up a joint Management Information System (MIS) between
countries implementing the APPSA, and independent evaluations at regular
intervals including at mid-term and prior to project closing.

Supporting regional facilitation by CCARDESA, including, but not limited to:
(i) planning, monitoring and evaluation activities related to regional collaboration;
(11) regional exchange of information, knowledge and technologies; (iii) relevant
technical assistance and capacity building for regional facilitation; and
(iv) facilitating the development of agricultural research and development projects,
including related peer reviews and quality control.
Section I.

Bee

SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Implementation Arrangements

Institutional Arrangements

1. At the national level, the Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in
accordance with the following arrangements:

(a)

(b)

(c)

The Borrower shall not later than three (3) months after the Effective Date,
establish and thereafter maintain the Project Steering Committee (PSC)
with a mandate, resources and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
The PSC shall be responsible for providing guidance and oversight and
policy guidance, in accordance with the Project Implementation Manual.

The Borrower shall:

(1) establish and maintain the Project Implementation Unit Team
(PIU Team) within Instituto de Investigaciéo Agrondémica under
the Project Implementation Unit for the Smallholders Agricultural
Development and Commercialization Project (SADCP PIU). Said
PIU Team with a mandate, terms of reference and resources,
satisfactory to the Bank. To this end, the PIU Team and SADCP
PIU will closely collaborate with the Project Implementation Unit
of Commercial Agriculture Development Project (CADP PIU) to
ensure effective communication and implementation of the
Project, and the related Agriculture sector Projects.

(ii) not later than two (2) months after the Effective Date appoint to
the PIU Team adequate staff, including PIU Team a Project
coordinator, a financial management specialist, a procurement
specialist, a monitoring and _ evaluation § specialist, a
communication specialist, and a social and environmental
safeguards specialist, all in accordance with provisions of the
Procurement Regulations.

Without limitation to the provisions of subparagraph 1(b) immediately
above: (i) the PIU shall be located in Luanda, and shall be responsible for,
inter alia, day-to-day management and implementation of the Project,
monitoring, reporting, evaluation and communication, overall
coordination of Project activities, preparation of the Annual Work Plans
and Budget, fiduciary aspects (i.e., financial management and
procurement, and environmental and social aspects;(ii) ensuring effective
Jf.

communication and implementation of the Project); and (iii) the Borrower
shall ensure that the PIU is, at all times during Project implementation,
headed by a Project executive coordinator and staffed with a senior
financial management specialist, a procurement and contract management
specialist, a monitoring and evaluation specialist, a communication
specialist, and an environmental and social safeguards specialist, all with
terms of reference, qualifications and experience, acceptable to the Bank,
except as the Borrower and the Bank may otherwise agree in writing, the
Borrower shall not introduce changes in the number of positions of the
PIU Team staff, or the professional skills required for such positions.

(d) The Borrower shall, not later than three (3) after the Effective Date,
establish, and thereafter maintain Regional Center for Leadership (RCoL)
for cassava, with a mandate, terms of reference and resources, satisfactory
to the Bank, including adequate staff with qualifications, experience, and
terms of reference, satisfactory to the Bank.

(e) Without limitation upon the provisions of subparagraph (d) immediately
above, the RCoL shall be responsible for coordinating with the external
agricultural stakeholders, including extension services, private
sector/cassava value chain stakeholders, CGIAR institutions, and
academia and other research organizations as well as providing regional
coordination for research and development and collaborate with other
APPSA countries including Lesotho, Malawi, Mozambique and Zambia.

At the regional level, the Borrower shall ensure that CCARDESA carries out its
Respective Parts of the Project in accordance with the provisions of the
Implementation Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and
CCARDESA as set out in Section I.B.1 of this Schedule.

Implementation Agreement

To facilitate the carrying out of CCARDESA’s Respective Parts of the Project, the
Borrower shall make part of the proceeds of the Financing allocated from time to
time to Category (2) of the table set forth in Section III.A of this Schedule available
to CCARDESA on a grant basis under an implementation agreement between the
Borrower and CCARDESA, under terms and conditions approved by the Bank
(“Implementation Agreement’).

The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Implementation Agreement in such
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish
the purposes of the Financing. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Implementation
Agreement or any of its provisions.
i Sub-projects

l. The Borrower shall make each Sub-financing to each Sub-project Beneficiary and
approve and appraise Sub-projects, all in accordance with eligibility criteria and
procedures acceptable to the Bank set out in the Project Implementation Manual.

- The Borrower shall make each Sub-financing under a Sub-financing Agreement
with the respective Beneficiary on terms and conditions approved by the Bank,
which shall include the Borrower’s rights adequate to protect its interests and those
of the Bank, including the right to:

(1) suspend or terminate the nght of the Sub-project Beneficiary to use the
proceeds of the Sub-financing, or obtain a refund of all or any part of the
amount of the Sub-financing then withdrawn, upon the Sub-project
Beneficiary’s failure to perform any of its obligations under the Sub-
financing Agreement; and

(11) require each Sub-project Beneficiary to: (A) carry out its Sub-project with
due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical,
economic, financial, managerial, environmental and social standards and
practices satisfactory to the Bank, including in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to recipients of
proceeds of the Financing other than the Borrower; (B) provide, promptly
as needed, the resources required for the purpose; (C) procure the goods,
works and services to be financed out of the Sub-financing in accordance
with the provisions of this Agreement; (D) maintain policies and
procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate in accordance
with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the progress of the Sub-project and
the achievement of its objectives; (E) (1) maintain a financial management
system and prepare financial statements in accordance with consistently
applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, both in a manner
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to
the Sub-project; and (2) at the Bank’s or the Borrower’s request, have such
financial statements audited by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards
acceptable to the Bank, and promptly furnish the statements as so audited
to the Borrower and the Bank; (F) enable the Borrower and the Bank to
inspect the Sub-project, its operation and any relevant records and
documents; and (G) prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the Bank all
such information as the Borrower or the Bank shall reasonably request
relating to the foregoing.

a The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each Sub-financing Agreement in such
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish
the purposes of the Financing. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Sy.

Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any Sub-financing
Agreement or any of its provisions.

Environmental and Social Safeguards

The Borrower shall ensure that:

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

the Project is carried out with due regard to appropriate health, safety,
social, and environmental practices and standards, and in accordance with
the Safeguards Instruments;

for each activity (including Sub-projects) under the Project for which the
ESMF and the RPF, the PMP provide for the preparation of an ESIA,
and/or ESMP, and a RAP:

(i) proceed to have such ESIA, and/or ESMP and Subproject RAP as
appropriate: (A) prepared and disclosed in accordance with the
ESMF and the RPF, respectively; (B) consulted upon adequately
with people affected by the Project as per the ESMF and RPF, and
submitted to the Bank for review and approval; and (C) thereafter
adopted, prior to implementation of the activity; and

(11) take such measures as shall be necessary or appropriate to ensure
compliance with the requirements of such ESIA, and/or ESMP
and RAP in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.

all measures are taken to implement the RAPs in a manner and timeframe
satisfactory to the Bank. To this end, the Borrower shall ensure that:

(i) funds are made available to cover all the costs of implementing
the RAPs;
(ii) prior to carrying out activities which involve displacement,

Affected Persons shall be compensated at full replacement cost,
resettled and provided with resettlement assistant in accordance
with the RAPs, as applicable; and

(111) | the implementation, monitoring and evaluation of such RAPs is
completed and reported in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.

For each activity (including Sub-project) under the Project for which the
IPPF provides for the preparation of an Indigenous Peoples Plan, the
Borrower shall: (a) prior to the carrying out of any said activity, prepare
and/or cause to be prepared and furnish to the Bank, an Indigenous
Peoples’ Plan, in accordance with the IPPF and satisfactory to the Bank;
AD

and (b) thereafter, adopt and implement, and/or cause to be adopted and
implemented, said Indigenous Peoples’ Plan in accordance with its terms
and in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.

Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree in writing, the Borrower shall ensure, and
cause to ensure, that none of the provisions of the Safeguard Instruments be
abrogated, amended, repealed, suspended or waived. In case of any inconsistencies
between the provisions of any of the Safeguard Instruments and the provisions of
this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.

Without limitation upon its other reporting obligations under this Agreement, the
Borrower shall, take all measures necessary on its part to regularly collect,
compile, and submit to the Bank, and promptly in a separate report whenever the
Bank may require, information on the status of compliance with the Safeguards
Instruments. Such information shall include: (i) measures taken in furtherance of
the Safeguards Instruments; (ii) conditions, if any, which interfere or threaten to
interfere with the smooth implementation of the Safeguards Instruments; and
(111) remedial measures taken or required to be taken to address such conditions.

Project Implementation Manual

The Borrower shall: (i) take all actions required to carry out its Respective Parts of
the Project in accordance with the provisions and requirements set forth in the
Project Implementation Manual; and (ii) not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Project Implementation Manual or any of its provisions without the Bank’s prior
written agreement.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any of the provisions of the Project
Implementation Manual is inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, the
provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.

Annual Work Plan and Budget (AWP&B)
The Borrower shall:

(a) prepare a draft AWP&B based on a regional research framework to be
developed in collaboration with CCARDESA for each calendar year,
setting forth, inter alia: (i) a detailed description of planned Project
activities to be carried out for the following calendar year; (ii) the sources
and uses of funds therefor; and (iii) responsibility for execution of said
Project activities;

(b) not later than October 31 of each calendar year, furnish to the Bank for its
comments and approval, the draft AWP&B and, promptly thereafter,
(c)

Al Ts
finalize the AWP&B taking into account the Bank’s views and
recommendations thereon; and

immediately thereafter implement the AWP&B in the form approved by
the Bank.

Contingent Emergency Response

In order to ensure the proper implementation of Part C of the Project (“Contingent
Emergency Response”) (“CERC Part”), the Borrower shall take the following
measures,

The Borrower shall:

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

prepare and furnish to the Bank for its review and approval, an operations
manual which shall set forth detailed implementation arrangements for the
CERC Part, including: (i) specific activities which may be included in the
CERC Part, Eligible Expenditures required therefor (“Emergency
Expenditures”), and any procedures for such inclusion; (ii) financial
management arrangements for the CERC Part; (iii) procurement methods
and procedures for Emergency Expenditures to be financed under the
CERC Part; (iv) documentation required for withdrawals of Emergency
Expenditures; (v) environmental and social safeguard management
frameworks for the CERC Part, consistent with the Bank’s policies on the
matter; and (vi) any other arrangements necessary to ensure proper
implementation of the CERC Part;

afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to review said proposed
operations manual; :

promptly adopt such operations manual for the CERC Part as shall have
been approved by the Bank (“CERC Operations Manual”);

ensure that the CERC Part is carried out in accordance with the CERC
Operations Manual; provided, however, that in the event of any
inconsistency between the provisions of the CERC Operations Manual and
this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail; and

not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive any provision of the CERC
Operations Manual without prior approval by the Bank.

The Borrower shall undertake no activities under the CERC Part unless and until
the following conditions have been met in respect of said activities:

(a)

the Borrower has determined that an Eligible Crisis or Emergency has
occurred, has furnished to the Bank a request to include said activities in
tt.

the CERC Part in order to respond to said Eligible Crisis or Emergency,
and the Bank has agreed with such determination, accepted said request
and notified the Borrower thereof;

(b) the Borrower has prepared and disclosed all safeguards instruments
required for said activities, in accordance with the CERC Operations
Manual, the Bank has approved all such instruments, and the Borrower
has implemented any actions which are required to be taken under said
instruments.

Procurement of Emergency Expenditures under the CERC Part

Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in this Section, Emergency
Expenditures required for the CERC Part of the Project shall be procured in
accordance with the procurement methods and procedures set forth in the CERC
Operations Manual.

Section II. Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank each Project Report not later than forty-
five (45) days after the end of each calendar semester, covering the calendar
semester.

Section Il. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

A.

General

Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and
in accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the
Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to: (a) finance Eligible
Expenditures; and (b) pay: (1) the Front-end Fee; and (ii) each Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar premium; in the amount allocated and, if applicable, up to the
percentage set forth against each Category of the following table:
ot %.

    
  
  
   

      
  
  
  
   

Amount of the Loan
Allocated
(expressed in USD)

23,687,500
1,250,000

   
   
 

  

Category Percentage of
Expenditures to be
financed

(inclusive of Taxes)

  

       
 

 

(1) Goods, works, non-consulting
services, consultants’ services,
Training, Operating Costs, and
Sub-financings for the Borrower’s
Respective Parts of the Project

     
    
   
    

Amount payable pursuant
to Section 2.07 (a) of the
General Conditions

Amount payable pursuant
to Section 2.03 of this
Agreement in accordance
with Section 2.07 (b) of the
General Conditions

(2) Goods, consultants’ services,
Training and Operating Costs for
CCARDESA’s Respective Parts of
the Project

 
     
 

  
  

   

    
   
 

(3) Emergency Expenditures under
Part C of the Project

  

(4) Front-end Fee

 
 
   
  

    
     
   
  

  

  

(5) Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar premium

62,500
Amount due pursuant to
Section 4.05 (c) of the

TOTAL AMOUNT soma | SSS

B. Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

        
 
   

   

Ls Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A above, no withdrawal shall be made:

(a) for payments made prior to the Signature Date, except that withdrawals up
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000, may be made for
payments made prior to this date but on or after January 1, 2018, for
Eligible Expenditures under Category (1); or

(b) under Category (2), unless: (i) the Implementation Agreement, acceptable
to the Bank, has been duly executed on behalf of the Borrower and
CCARDESA; and (11) the Bank has received a legal opinion or opinions
satisfactory to the Bank of counsel acceptable to the Bank, showing that
be

i.

the Implementation Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and
delivered on behalf of the Borrower and CCARDESA and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and CCARDESA in accordance with its terms;
or

(c) under Category (3) for Emergency Expenditures under Part C of the
Project, unless the Bank is satisfied, and has notified the Borrower of its
satisfaction, that all of the following conditions have been met in respect
of said activities:

(i) the Borrower has determined that an Eligible Crisis or Emergency
has occurred, has furnished to the Bank a request to include said
activities in the CERC Part in order to respond to said Eligible
Crisis or Emergency, and the Bank has agreed with such
determination, accepted said request and notified the Borrower
thereof;

(ii) the Borrower has prepared and disclosed all safeguards
instruments required for said activities, and the Borrower has
implemented any actions which are required to be taken under said
instruments, all in accordance with the provisions of Section I.G
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and

(111) | the Borrower has adopted a CERC Operations Manual in form,
substance and manner acceptable to the Bank and the provisions
of the CERC Operations Manual.

The Closing Date is January 31, 2025.
-15-

SCHEDULE 3
Commitment-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage
of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date

(“Installment Share”).

Level Principal Repayments

Principal Payment Date Installment Share

On each January1Sand July 15

      

3.33%

 

Beginning January 15, 2024
through January 15, 2038

On July 15, 2038 3.43%

 
   

    
-16-

APPENDIX
Definitions

“Affected Person” means a person or entity who, on account of the execution of
the Project and/or Subprojects, has experienced or would experience direct
economic and social impacts caused by: (1) the involuntary taking of land resulting
in: (A) relocation or loss of shelter; (B) loss of assets or access to assets; or
(C) loss of income sources or means of livelihood, whether or not such person must
move to another location; or (ii) the involuntary restriction of access to legally
designated parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood
of such person; and “Affected Persons”, means more than one such Affected
Person.

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix
to the General Conditions, the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud
and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”,
dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.

“CCARDESA” means the Centre for Coordination of Agricultural Research and
Development for Southern Africa, a sub-regional organization aimed to lead
collaboration in agricultural research and development among Southern African
countries.

“CCARDESA Financing Agreement” means the Financing Agreement of even
date entered into between the Bank and CCARDESA for financing CCARDESA’s
Respective Parts of the Project.

“CCARDESA’s Legislation” means CCARDESA’s charter dated November 5,
2010, pursuant to which CCARDESA has been established and is operating.

“CADP PIU” means the project implementation unit for the Bank-financed
Commercial Agriculture Development Project (Loan Number 8866-AO)

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section III.A of Schedule 2
to this Agreement.

“Contingent Emergency Response Component Operations Manual” and “CERC
Operations Manual” each means the operations manual referred to in Section I.G
of this Agreement, to be adopted by the Borrower for the CERC Part of the Project
in accordance with the provisions of said Section.

“Eligible Crisis or Emergency” means an event that has caused, or is likely to
imminently cause, a major adverse economic and/or social impact to the Borrower,
associated with a natural or man-made crisis or disaster.
10.

Lis

12.

13s

14.

15.

-17-

“Emergency Expenditure” means any of the Eligible Expenditures set forth in the
CERC Operations Manual in accordance with the provisions of Section I.G of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and required for the activities included in the CERC
Part of the Project.

“Environmental and Social Management Framework” or “ESMF” means the
framework dated July 2018, prepared by the Borrower, satisfactory to the Bank,
and disclosed on the Bank’s website on July 24, 2018, and by the Borrower on
July 20, 2018, said framework setting out the principles, rules, guidelines and
procedures to screen and assess the environmental and social impacts (including
health and safety issues) of the Project (including Sub-project) activities which will
be identified and appraised during Project implementation, and containing
measures and plans to avoid, minimize, mitigate and/or offset adverse impacts
and/or reduce said adverse impacts to acceptable levels, and enhance positive
impacts, provisions for estimating and budgeting the costs of such measures, and
information on the agency or agencies responsible for addressing project impacts,
as said instrument may be amended from time to time with the Bank’s prior written
agreement.

‘“ESMP” means the instrument to be prepared for any Project activity (including
Sub-project) in accordance with the procedures and requirements under the ESMF,
satisfactory to the Bank, which details: (a) the measures to be taken during the
implementation and operation of the Subproject to avoid, minimize, mitigate or
offset adverse environmental and social impacts (including health and safety
issues), or to reduce them to acceptable levels; and (b) the actions needed to
implement these measures, as said instrument may be amended from time to time
with the Bank’s prior written agreement and “ESMPs” means, collectively, all such
ESMPs.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project
Financing”, dated July 14, 2017.

“Implementation Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.B of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make part of
the proceeds of the Financing available to CCARDESA.

“Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework” or “IPPF” means the framework dated
July 2018, prepared and adopted by the Borrower, satisfactory to the Bank, and
disclosed on the Bank’s website on August 29, 2018, and the Borrower on August
28, 2018, which sets out the principles, organizational arrangements (including
consultation, budget and disclosure), and design criteria to be applied to Project
and Subproject activities which affect indigenous peoples, as such framework may
be amended from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank.
16.

17.

18.

19.

20.

21.

22.

23.

24.

yn

-18-

“Instituto de Investigacéo Agronémica” or “IIA” means the recipients institute of
agricultural research within the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry.

“Operating Costs” means the incremental costs incurred by the Borrower and
CCARDESA, approved by the Bank on the basis of the respective Annual Work
Plans and Budgets, said cost arising under Project implementation, management,
and monitoring, including office supplies and consumables; communication costs;
operation and maintenance of office vehicles; per diem and travel costs for Project
staff; reasonable bank charges; allowances and salaries of contractual staff but
excluding the salaries of the Borrower’s civil servants.

“Participating Countries” means, collectively, the Borrower, Republic of
Mozambique, Republic of Malawi, Republic of Zambia, Kingdom of Lesotho and
“Participating Country” means individually each and any of the Participating
Countries.

“Pest Management Plan” means the integrated pest management plan dated May
2018, prepared by the Borrower, satisfactory to the Bank, and disclosed on the
Bank’s website on July 24, 2018, and by the Borrower on July 20, 2018, as said
instrument may be updated from time to time with the prior written agreement of
the Bank.

“Procurement Regulations” means, for purposes of paragraph 87 of the Appendix
to the General Conditions, the “World Bank Procurement Regulations for IPF
Borrowers”, dated July 2016, revised November 2017.

“Project Implementation Manual” means the manual referred to in
Section 4.01 of this Agreement, and in paragraph E.1 of Section I of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, including, inter alia, financial management and procurement
policies and procedures and implementation arrangements, as the same may be
revised from time to time with the prior approval of the Bank.

“Project Implementation Unit Team” or “PIU Team” means the unit referred to in
Section I.A.1(b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and established within IIA with
the responsibility for project management and implementation.

“Project Steering Committee” means the committee referred to in Section I.A.1(a)
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“RCoL” means the Regional Center of Leadership established in the Borrower’s
territory serving as a leadership center for cassava and cassava—based farming
systems.

“Resettlement Policy Framework” or “RPF” means the framework dated August
2018, prepared and adopted by the Borrower, satisfactory to the Bank, and
26.

aes

28.

29.

30.

31.

Dz.

Sos

34.

ie.

disclosed on the Bank’s website on August 22, 2018, and by the Borrower on
August 21, 2018, which sets out the resettlement principles, organizational
arrangements (including consultation and budget), and design criteria to be applied
to resettlement related Project (including Subproject) activities to be prepared
during Project implementation, as such framework may be amended from time to
time with the prior written agreement of the Bank.

“Respective Parts of the Project” means in the case of the Borrower, Parts A, B, C
and D.1 of the Project, and in the case of CCARDESA, Parts D.2 and D.3 of the
Project.

“SADC” means the Southern African Development Community whose member
countries cooperate by its treaty which was adopted on August 17, 1992, in
Namibia to achieve regional integration and eradicate poverty in the Southern
Africa region.

“SADCP PIU” means project implementation unit for the Bank-financed
Smallholders Agricultural Development and Commercialization Project (Loan
Number 8626-AO).

“Safeguard Instruments” means collectively, the ESIA, the ESMF, any ESMP, the
IPPF, the IPP, the Pest Management Plan, the RPF, and any RAP, and “Safeguard
Instrument” means any of such Safeguards Instruments.

“Signature Date” means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the
Bank signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to “the
date of the Loan Agreement” in the General Conditions.

“Sub-financing” means a grant made by the Borrower to a Sub-project Beneficiary
out of the proceeds of the Loan for the financing and carrying out of a Sub-project
pursuant to the provisions of the Project Implementation Manual; and the term
“Sub-financings” means, collectively, all such Sub-financings.

“Sub-Financing Agreement” means the agreement referred to in paragraph C.2 of
Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

“Sub-project” means an agricultural research and development project under Part
A of the Project, meeting the selection criteria set out in the Project Implementation
Manual, to be carried out by a Sub-project Beneficiary, all in accordance with the
provisions of the Project Implementation Manual; and the term “Sub-projects”
means, collectively, all such Sub-projects.

“Sub-project Beneficiary” means an agricultural research institution or university,
or such other organizations, as may be agreed to from time to time between the
Borrower and the Bank, established and operating pursuant to the relevant laws of
35.

-20-

the Borrower and eligible to carry out a Sub-project pursuant to the Project
Implementation Manual; and the term “Sub-project Beneficiaries” means,
collectively, all such Sub-project Beneficiaries.

“Training” means expenditures incurred by the Borrower and CCARDESA to
finance the costs directly related to, and under the Project of training fees, training
materials, travel, accommodations, and per diem.
