Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

 

 

LOAN NUMBER 8968-CV

Loan Agreement

(Cabo Verde Disaster Risk Management Development Policy Financing with a
Catastrophe Deferred Drawdown Option)

between
REPUBLIC OF CABO VERDE
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

 

 
LOAN NUMBER 8968-CV
LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between the REPUBLIC OF CABO
VERDE (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the
Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).

WHEREAS the Bank has decided to provide this financing on the basis, inter alia,
of: (i) the actions which the Borrower has already taken under the Program and which are
described in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (ii) the Borrower’s
maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic policy framework;

WHEREAS the Bank has agreed to extend financing to the Borrower in support of
the Program through this Agreement and a Credit No. 6424-CV for an amount equivalent
to five million United States dollars provided by the International Development
Association pursuant to a Financing Agreement of even date (“the Credit”) herewith;

The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01. The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to
and form part of this Agreement.

1.02. Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.

ARTICLE II — LOAN

2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of five million United States
dollars (US$5,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time
through a Currency Conversion (“Loan”).

2.02. The Front-end Fee is one half of one percent (0.50%) of the Loan amount.

2.03. If, at the Borrower’s request and on such terms and conditions as the Bank may
agree, the Closing Date is extended, the fee payable by the Borrower for each
extension of the Closing Date shall be one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the
Loan amount available for withdrawal upon such extension. Ifthe Borrower elects
to capitalize the fee, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Loan Account and pay to itself such amounts required to pay such fee. If the
Borrower elects to pay the fee from its own resources, the Borrower shall pay such
2.04.

2.05.

2.06.

2.07.

2.08.

3.01.

4.01.

4.02.

ae

fee not later than sixty (60) days after the date of the notice given by the Bank to
the Borrower confirming the extension of the Closing Date.

The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Variable Spread or such rate as may
apply following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General
Conditions.

The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.

At any time prior to the Closing Date, the Borrower may, by notice to the Bank,
refund any amount of the Withdrawn Balance for the purpose of re-crediting such
amount to the Loan Account for further withdrawals. Upon such refund, the
repayment schedule shall be adjusted on a pro rata basis, on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank.

Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.05 of the General Conditions,
the Borrower shall promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the
provisions of this Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request.

ARTICLE III — PROGRAM

The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation. To
this end, and further to Section 5.05 of the General Conditions:

(a) the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either
party, exchange views on the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy
framework and the progress achieved in carrying out the Program; and

(b) without limitation upon paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall
promptly inform the Bank of any situation that would have the effect of
materially reversing the objectives of the Program or any action taken
under the Program including any action specified in Section I of Schedule
1 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely a situation
has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part

of it, will be carried out.

The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following namely the event
specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs.
»,01.

9:02.

6.01.

6.02.

6.03.

ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely the
Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the
Program and with the adequacy of the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy
framework.
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the Signature Date.
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Finance.
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) the Borrower’s address is:
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Avenida Amilcar Cabral
C.P. 30, Praia
Cabo Verde; and
(b) the Borrower’s Electronic Address is:
E-mail:
Carla.Cruz@mf.gov.cv or Hernani.trigueiros@mf.gov.cv
For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) the Bank’s address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America; and
(b) the Bank’s Electronic Address is:

Telex: Facsimile:

248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
AGREED as of the Signature Date.

REPUBLIC OF CABO VERDE

By

   

Authorized Representative

Name: ( oto Conf o

Title: ViGo= Qriewo Winicdn ond We'd YF {cond
Date: OG-O6-7 O13

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

By

 

Name: LoOu'ne Cond

Date: O06 “tt Ob — 20\ 3
SCHEDULE 1

Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds

Section I. Actions under the Program

The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following:

The Borrower has adopted the National Disaster Risk Reduction Strategy.

The Borrower has amended the Territorial Planning Legal Framework to
incorporate the use of disaster and climate-related risk information in the

development of territorial planning instruments.

The Borrower has reformed the National Statistical System which incorporates
open data standards, protocols and procedures.

The Borrower has created a Risk Management Unit in the Treasury Department of
the Ministry of Finance.

The Borrower has created the National Emergency Fund to finance emergency
response and recovery in the case of a disaster or climate-related shock.

Section II. Availability of Loan Proceeds

A.

General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank
may specify by notice to the Borrower.

Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan is allocated in a single withdrawal

tranche, from which the Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds.

The allocation of the amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below:
Allocated

Allocations
expressed in USD

1) Single Withdrawal Tranche 4,975,000
2) Front-end Fee 25,000
3

Amount of the Loan

      
  

     
  

   

  
 
 

  
   
  

(4) Amount due pursuant to Section
4.05(c) of the General Conditions

TOTAL AMOUNT

(3) Fee payable pursuant to Section
2.03 of this Agreement

5,000,000

 
Payment of Fee Pursuant to Section 2.03 of this Agreement. If the Closing
Date is extended pursuant to Section 2.03 of Article III of this Agreement and the
Borrower elects to finance from its own resources the fee set forth in said Section,
no withdrawal shall be made from the Loan Account until the Bank has received
payment in full of such fee.

Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank
is satisfied, based on evidence satisfactory to it, that a State of Calamity has been
declared to respond to an imminent or occurring natural catastrophe.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, if, at any time prior to the receipt by the Bank of a
request for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the Bank determines that a review
of the Borrower’s progress in carrying out the Program is warranted, the Bank shall
give notice to the Borrower to that effect. Upon the giving of such notice, no
withdrawals shall be made of the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance unless and until the
Bank has notified the Borrower of its satisfaction, after an exchange of views as
described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 3.01 of Article III of this Agreement,
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the Program.

Deposit of Loan Amounts
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 2.03 of the General Conditions:

(a) the Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the first request
for withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter maintain the
following two dedicated accounts on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank: (i) a dedicated account in United States dollars (“Foreign
Currency Dedicated Account”); (ii) a dedicated account in Cape Verdean
Escudos (“Local Currency Dedicated Account’); and

(b) all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into
the Foreign Currency Dedicated Account. Upon each deposit of an
amount of the Loan into the Foreign Currency Dedicated Account, the
Borrower shall deposit an equivalent amount into the Local Currency
Dedicated Account.

The Borrower, within thirty (30) days after the withdrawal of the Loan from the
Loan Account, shall report to the Bank: (a) the exact sum received into the Foreign
Currency Dedicated Account; (b) the details of the account to which the Cape
Verdean Escudos equivalent of the Loan proceeds will be credited; (c) the record
that an equivalent amount has been accounted for in the Borrower’s budget
management systems; and (d) the statement of receipts and disbursement of the
Foreign Currency Dedicated Account.
 

Audit. Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall:

have the Dedicated Accounts audited by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the
Bank;

furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case, not later than four (4)
months after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the
report of such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request, and make such report publicly available in a timely fashion and in a
manner acceptable to the Bank; and

furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Dedicated Accounts and
their audit as the Bank shall reasonably request.

Closing Date. The Closing Date is September 30, 2022.

 
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Repayment Schedule

Disbursement-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule — Level Repayment

Subject to the provisions of Section 3.03 of the General Conditions, the Borrower
shall repay each Disbursed Amount in semiannual installments payable on each
April 15 and October 15, the first installment to be payable on the 17" Payment
Date following the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed Amount and the last
installment to be payable on the 40th Payment Date following the Maturity Fixing
Date for the Disbursed Amount. Each installment except for the last one shall be
equal to one-twenty fourth (1/24") of the Disbursed Amount. The last installment

shall be equal to the remaining outstanding amount of the Disbursed Amount.

If any one or more installments of principal of the Disbursed Amount would,
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Schedule, be payable after October
15, 2039, the Borrower shall also pay on such date the aggregate amount of all

such installments.

The Bank shall notify the Loan Parties of the amortization schedule for each
Disbursed Amount promptly after the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed

Amount.
APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

1,

“Dedicated Accounts” means both the Foreign Currency Dedicated Account and
the Local Currency Dedicated Account.”’.

“Foreign Currency Dedicated Account” means the account referred to in Part
E.1(a)(i) of Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Development Policy
Financing”, dated December 14, 2018, with the modifications set forth in Section
II of this Appendix.

“Local Currency Dedicated Account” means the account referred to in
Part E.1(a)(1i) of Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

“National Disaster Risk Reduction Strategy” means the strategy adopted by the
Borrower in Resolution No. 114/2018 of the Council of Ministers, published in the
Official Gazette dated October 20, 2018.

“National Emergency Fund” means the fund created by Decree-Law No. 59/2018,
published in the Official Gazette dated November 16, 2018.

“National Statistical System” means the Borrower’s statistical system introduced
by Law No. 48/IX/2019, published in the Official Gazette dated February 18, 2019.

“Program” means: the program of objectives, policies, and actions set forth or
referred to in the letter dated April 2, 2019, from the Borrower to the Bank
declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and
requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its execution
and comprising actions taken, including those set forth in Section I of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, and actions to be taken consistent with the program’s
objectives.

“Risk Management Unit” means the unit within the Ministry of Finance’s Treasury
Department, created by Decree-Law No. 28/2018, published in the Official Gazette
dated May 24, 2018, and in force on July 9, 2018, or its successor thereto.

“Signature Date” means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the
Bank signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to “the
date of the Loan Agreement” in the General Conditions.
iL

12.

13.

-10-

“Single Withdrawal Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the
category entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of
Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

“State of Calamity” means a declaration by the Borrower, through a Resolution
from its Council of Ministers, of a state of calamity (situacao de calamidade) due
to a natural catastrophe, in accordance with article 20 of Law No. 12/VIII/2012 of
March 7, 2012 and article 265(2) of the Borrower’s Constitution of 2010, as they
may be amended from time to time.

“Territorial Planning Legal Framework” means Decree-Law No. 1/2006 of
February 13, 2006 and Decree-Law No. 6/2010 of June 21, 2010, as amended by
Decree-Law No. 4/2018 approved by the Council of Ministers on April 19, 2017
and published in the Official Gazette dated July 6, 2018.

Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions

The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:

In paragraph 101 of the Appendix, the term “Variable Spread” is modified to read
as follows:

“101. “Variable Spread” means, for each Withdrawal and each Interest Period:
(a) (1) the Bank’s standard lending spread for Loans in effect at 12:01 a.m.
Washington, D.C. time, on the Withdrawal Date; (2) minus (or plus) the weighted
average margin, for the Interest Period, below (or above) the Reference Rate, for
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding borrowings or portions
thereof allocated by it to fund loans that carry interest at a rate based on the
Variable Spread; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
percentage per annum; and (b) in case of Conversions, the variable spread, as
applicable, as determined by the Bank in accordance with Conversion Guidelines
and notified to the Borrower pursuant to Section 4.01(c). In the case of a Loan
denominated in more than one Currency, “Variable Spread” applies separately to
each of such Currencies.”.

The following definitions of the terms “Withdrawal” and “Withdrawal Date” are
inserted as new paragraphs 102 and 103, respectively, and the remaining
definitions and paragraphs (as the case may be) renumbered accordingly:

102. “Withdrawal” means each amount of the Loan withdrawn by the Borrower
from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 2.01.

103. “Withdrawal Date” means, for each Withdrawal, the date on which the
Bank pays the Withdrawal.”
