|

¢

Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

.
|
|

|
|
|
|
|
|
{

OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

 

 

LOAN NUMBER 84384-AR

Loan Agreement

(Argentina Renewable Energy for Rural Areas Project)
between
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

patea OctoBee 4,215
LOAN AGREEMENT

Agreement dated 0) COBER Y , 2015 between ARGENTINE REPUBLIC

(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:

1.01.

1.02,

2.01.

2.02.

2.03.

2.04,

2.05.

2.06.

2.07.

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.

Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.

ARTICLE IT — LOAN

The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of two hundred million Dollars, ($200,000,000), as such
amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance
with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the
project described in Schedule | to this Agreement (“Project”).

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.

The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.

The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to the
Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e)
of the General Conditions.

The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
3.01.

3.02.

4.01.

(b)

(c)

-)-

The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest
rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or
(B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the Variable
Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate
based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the
Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.

Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is accepted
by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in the General
Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV
of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.

Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium
payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE Il — PROJECT

The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the
Borrower shall carry out the Project through SE with the assistance of the Participating
Provinces (as provided in the corresponding Participation Agreements), all in accordance
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.

Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the Project
is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK

The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that any
Participating Province shall have failed to comply with any of its obligations under the
pertinent Participation Agreement.

 

4
i
4
4
|
|
|
|
|
3
$

 

 
4.02.

5.01.

5.02.

5.03.

6.01.

6.02.

6.03.

 

The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that the event
specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of 60 days
after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower.

ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that at least

two Participation Agreements have been executed on behalf of the Borrower and each
Participating Province.

The Additional Legal Matter consists of the followmg, namely that the Participation
Agreements to be entered into as per the condition set forth in Section 5.01 of this
Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified by the: Borrower and each Participating
Province, and are legally binding upon the Borrower and each Participating Province in
accordance with their terms.

Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness Deadline
is the date one hundred and twenty (120) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no
case later than eighteen months (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan which
expire on October 7, 2016.

ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Economy and Public Finance.
The Borrower’s Address 1s:

Ministerio de Economia y Finanzas Publicas
Hipolito Yrigoyen 250 :
C1086 AAB, Buenos Aires

Argentina

Cable: Telex: Facsimile:
MINISTERIO

DE ECONOMIA 121942-AR (S411) 4349-8815
Baires

The Bank’s Address is:

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America
 

4.

Cable address: Telex: Facsimile:

INTBAFRAD 248423(MCD or 1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 64145(MCI)

 

AGREED at UHA , cE Lic OF PeEeU , as of the day and year first
above written. .

 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

 
   

By:
Representative

Name: TESKO S. HENTSCHEL
Title _ COONTEY TeZave

 
SCHEDULE 1

Project Description

The objective of the Project is to provide and enhance access to modem energy services in
the Borrower’s selected rural areas.

The Project consists of the following parts:

Part 1: Renewable Electricity Service Provision

Provision of renewable electricity services through, inter alia: (a) the acquisition and installation
of stand-alone solar systems, stand-alone wind systems, Pico PV for isolated individual households
and public facilities in rural areas of the Participating Provinces; (b) the construction and/or upgrade
of mini grids (including mini hydro, as applicable) for, inter alia, rural and isolated population
clusters and/or public institutions located in rural areas of the Participating Provinces; (c) the
acquisition and installation of water pumping systems in isolated individual households, public
facilities and isolated communities, all located in rural areas of the Participating Provinces; (d) the
acquisition and installation of equipment to micro-enterprises for the development of individual or
collective productive uses activities; and (e) the provision of small works and goods as in-kind
compensation under the relevant resettlement plan referred to in Section L.E.2 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.

Part 2: Solar Thermal Service Provision

Provision of solar thermal energy services through, inter alia the acquisition and installation of,
solar water heaters, solar spatial heating systems, cookers.and ovens for: (a) selected dispersed
public facilities; and (b) public buildings located in rural areas in the Participating Provinces.

Part 3: Project Deployment Support

Provision of support for the design, implementation and execution of Subprojects and the carrying
out of activities to enhance renewable energy deployment in the Borrower’s territory including,
inter alia: (a) the carrying out of market studies to determine potential energy demand and
technologies at both urban and rural levels; (b) the carrying out of monitoring and evaluation
activities, including the deployment of new technologies to remotely measure electricity
consumption and use as well as Subprojects performance; (c) the carrying out of communication
strategies and outreach activities, including: (i) the carrying out of studies to support the Borrower’s
renewable energy goals; (ii) the dissemination of lessons learned, best practices and relevant
experiences; and (ili) provision of capacity building for the weakest stakeholders to ensure their
participation in the Project; and (d) provision of support for the development of pilot studies for
technologies that have not been fully deployed in the Borrower’s territory, such as solar space
heating systems.
Part 4: Project Management

Carrying out Project management activities, including, inter alia: (a) the strengthening of the
operational capacity of: (i) the PCU for the implementation, monitoring, administration and
supervision of the Project; and (ii) the Participating Provinces and their respective PEUs to carry
out the Project activities under their responsibility; (b) the carrying out of the Project audits; (c) the
carrying out of training; (d) the financing of travel costs for PCU and PEUs staff; and (e) the rental
of vehicles for the carrying out of Project supervision activities.

SRP RE RR ba ee ye be eas

2
i

t

4
4
a
a
ot
a

 
SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Section I. Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional Arrangements
1. The Borrower shall vest the overall responsibility for the implementation, monitoring and

supervision of the Project in SE, and to this end shall, through SE:

(a)

(b)

(c)

maintain, throughout Project implementation, a unit (“PCU”) with structure,
functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank as set forth in the Operational
Manual, including inter alia, the responsibility of the PCU to implement, monitor
and supervise the carrying out of the Project (including its financial and
procurement aspects);

ensure that the PCU is, throughout Project implementation, headed by a Project
coordinator, and staffed with adequate professional, fiduciary, administrative and
technical personnel (including social and environmental specialists), all with
qualifications, experience and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, as set
forth in the Operational Manual; and

cause the Participating Provinces, through the respective Participation
Agreements, to operate and maintain throughout the execution of the Project,
provincial implementation units (the PEUs), with functions and responsibilities
acceptable to both the Borrower and the Bank and with staff in number and with
qualifications and experience acceptable to both the Borrower and the Bank.

B. Other Implementation Arrangements

l. For purposes of carrying out any given Subproject, and prior to the carrying out of any of
the works or Project activities under the pertinent Subproject, the Borrower, through SE,
shall enter into an agreement (the Participation Agreement) with the corresponding
Participating Province (or, if applicable, amend the existing Participation Agreement with
said Participating Province), all under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, which
shall include, inter alia, the obligation of each Participating Province:

(a)

(b)

(c)

to assist the Borrower, through SE, in the carrying out of the pertinent Subproject
in accordance with the pertinent provisions of this Agreement, including technical,
financial, administrative, environmental and fiduciary standards acceptable to the
Bank;

to provide the counterpart funds, facilities, services and other resources necessary
or appropriate to carry out the corresponding Subproject;

to comply with the provisions of the Environmental and Social Management
Framework (ESMF), the Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) and the
(d)

(e)

(f)

(g)

Re

Indigenous People Policy Framework (IPPF), as applicable, in accordance with
their terms and those of this Agreement and the Operational Manual:

to ensure that the pertinent Subproject is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines;

to take or permit to be taken all action to enable the Borrower, through SE, to
comply with its obligations referred to in this Agreement, as applicable to the
carrying out of the pertinent Subproject;

in those cases in which the pertinent Participating Province (with or without the
assistance of a Qualified Service Provider) will carry out the activities under a
Subproject, the Borrower, through SE, shall cause the corresponding Participating
Province to carry out/cause (through the pertinent Operation, Maintenance and
Replacement Agreement) to be carried out the Subproject in compliance with the
pertinent provisions of this Agreement (including procurement) and the
Operational Manual, and, when applicable: (i) prior to the carrying out of any
Subproject activities, prepare/cause to be prepared an environmental management
plan in accordance with the ESMF and acceptable to the Bank, and/or an
indigenous people management plan in accordance with the IPPF and acceptable
to the Bank, and/or a resettlement action plan in accordance with the RPF and
acceptable to the Bank; and (ii) immediately thereafter, implement/cause to be
implemented the relevant approved environmental management plan, and/or the
relevant approved indigenous people management plan, and/or the relevant
resettlement action plan; all in accordance with their respective terms and in a
manner acceptable to the Bank;

immediately upon the installation of the corresponding goods or the completion of
the corresponding works under a Subproject (as determined by the Borrower and
verified by the Participating Province and/or the Qualified Service Provider, as the
case may be, in accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual): (i) to
operate and maintain (including, if applicable, replacement of the installed goods
under said Subproject) the same in accordance with the pertinent provisions of this
Agreement and the Operational Manual; or (ii) to enter into an agreement with a
Qualified Service Provider (the Operation, Maintenance and Replacement
Agreement), or amend the existing Operation, Maintenance and Replacement
Agreement, all under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, which shall
include, inter alia: (A) the obligation of the Qualified Service Provider to
immediately upon the installation of the corresponding goods under a Subproject
(as determined by the Borrower and verified by the Qualified Service Provider in
accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual) operate and maintain
(including, if applicable, replacement of the installed goods under a Subproject)
the same in accordance with the provisions of the respective Participation
Agreement, the ESMF and the Operational Manual, all in a manner acceptable to
the Bank; and (B) the right of the Participating Province to take remedial actions
against the Qualified Service Provider in case said Qualified Service Provider shall

BE Be artes ssn ee

a te nee eth atti rah ttintP titer ttt bry cae ant 2

Notes inne st sebaane ie — sath e
-9-

have failed to comply with any of its obligations under the corresponding
Operation, Maintenance and Replacement Agreement;

(h) if applicable, to comply, or cause to be complied, with the obligations referred to
in Sections 5.04, 5.05, 5.06, 5.07 and 5.10 of the General Conditions (relating to
insurance, land acquisition, use of goods, works and services, and maintenance of
facilities, plans, documents and records, cooperation and consultations and visits,
respectively) in respect of the respective Subproject;

(1) to operate and maintain at all times during Project implementation, the pertinent
PEU, with functions and responsibilities acceptable to both the Borrower and the
Bank and with staff in number and with qualifications and experience acceptable
to both the Borrower and the Bank; and

G) not to assign, amend, terminate, abrogate, repeal, waive or fail to enforce the
Participation Agreement or any provision thereof unless previously agreed by the
Borrower, through SE, and the Bank.

The Borrower, through SE, shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under any
Participation Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower, through SE, shall not assign, amend, terminate, abrogate, waive or fail to
enforce any Participation Agreement or any of its provisions.

Operational Manual

Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower,
through SE, shall and shall cause the Participating Province (as the case may be) to carry
out the Project in accordance with the provisions of a manual (the Operational Manual),
acceptable to the Bank.

In case of any conflict among the terms of the Operational Manual and those of this
Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.

Anti-Corruption

The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions
of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.

Safeguards

The Borrower, through SE, shall and, if.applicable, shall cause the Participating Provinces
to: (a) implement the Project in accordance with the Environmental and Social
Management Framework (ESMF), including the procedures detailed in said ESMF for
environmental screening, evaluation, implementation and monitoring of the works under
the Subprojects, as well as the procedures for the preparation of environmental
management plans, when applicable; and (b) implement and/or cause to be implemented
 

-10-

the pertinent environmental management plan, in accordance with its terms and in a manner
acceptable to the Bank.

The Borrower, through SE, shall and, if applicable, shall cause the Participating Provinces
to: (a) implement the Project in accordance with the Resettlement Policy Framework
(RPF), including the procedures detailed in said RPF for screening, evaluation,
implementation and monitoring of the Project activities, as well as the procedures for the
preparation of resettlement action plans, when applicable; and (b) implement and/or cause
to implement the pertinent resettlement action plan in accordance with its terms and in a
manner acceptable to the Bank.

The Borrower, through SE, shall and, if applicable, shall cause the Participating Provinces
to: (a) implement the Project in accordance with the Indigenous People Planning
Framework (IPPF), including the procedures detailed in said IPPF for screening,
evaluation, implementation, and monitoring of the Subprojects, as well as procedures for
the preparation of indigenous peoples plans, when applicable; and (b) implement the
pertinent indigenous peoples plan in accordance with its terms, and in a manner acceptable
to the Bank.

The Borrower, through SE, shall ensure that the terms of reference for any consultancies
related to the technical assistance provided under the Project, shall be acceptable to the
Bank following its review thereof and, to that end, such terms of reference shall duly
incorporate the requirement of the Bank’s Safeguard Policies then in force, as applied to
the advice conveyed through such technical assistance.

Section II. Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

Project Reports

The Borrower, through the SE, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and
prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
Conditions and on the basis of indicators set forth in the Operational Manual. Each Project
Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank
not later than forty five days after the end of the period covered by such report.

Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits

The Borrower, through SE, shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial
management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.

Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower, through SE,
shall prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report not later than forty five
days after the end of each calendar semester, interim unaudited financial reports for the
Project covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.

eS ates na phi amin pap
-|I-

3... The Borrower, through SE, shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with
the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the Financial
Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited Financial
Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six months
after the end of such period.

4, The Borrower, through SE, shall, prior to the commencement of each calendar year during
Project implementation, create, and thereafter maintain throughout each said calendar year
of Project implementation, a specific budget line entry in the national annual budget
starting in calendar year 2015.

Section III. Procurement
A. General

l, Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. All goods, works and non-consulting
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.

2. Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and
with the provisions of this Section.

3. Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to the
corresponding method described in Sections II and II of the Procurement Guidelines, or
Sections IT, III, [V and V of the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.

4, Special Provisions. Without limitation to the other provisions in Section IIIA of this
Schedule, the following additional provisions shall also govern the procurement of goods,
works, non-consulting services and consultants’ services under the Project (as the case may
be):

(a) procurement of goods, works, non-consulting services and consultants’ services
(in respect of firms) shall be carried out using: (i) (A) standard bidding documents
(which bidding documents in respect of works shall include, if applicable, a
provision whereby the pertinent contractor must comply with the pertinent
provisions of: (I) the EMSF; (II) the IPPF; and (III) the RPF); and (B) standard
requests for quotations/proposals (as the case may be), all acceptable to the Bank,
which shall all include, inter alia, a settlement of dispute provision and the
pertinent provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines; (ii) model bid evaluation
forms, and model quotations/proposals evaluation forms (as the case may be); and
(iii) model contract forms, all acceptable to the Bank;
(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

(f)

(g)

(h)

all contracts for works to be procured under the Project shall contain a
methodology, acceptable to the Bank, whereby the price of each said contracts
shall be adjusted through the use of price adjustment formulas, in a manner
acceptable to the Bank;

a two-envelope bidding procedure shall not be allowed in the procurement of
goods, works and non-consulting services;

after the public opening of bids for goods, works and non-consulting services,
information relating to the examination, clarification and evaluation of bids and
recommendations concerning awards, shall not be disclosed to bidders or other
persons not officially concerned with this process until the publication of contract
award. In addition, bidders and/or other persons not officially concerned with said
process shall not be allowed to review or make copies of other bidders’ bids;

after the public opening of consultants’ proposals, information relating to the
examination, clarification and evaluation of proposals and recommendations
concerning awards, shall not be disclosed to consultants or other persons not
officially concerned with this process until the publication of contract award
(except as provided in paragraphs 2.23 and 2.30 of the Consultant Guidelines). In
addition, consultants and/or other persons not officially concerned with said
process shall not be allowed to review or make copies of other consultants’
proposals; |

foreign bidders or foreign consultants shall not, as a condition for submitting bids
or proposals and/or for contract award: (1) be required to be registered in Argentina
(except as provided in the standard bidding documents referred to in paragraph 4
(a) (1) (A) above); (ii) be required to have a representative in Argentina; and (iii)
be required to be associated or subcontracted with Argentine suppliers, contractors
or consultants;

the invitations to bid, bidding documents, minutes of bid openings, requests for
expressions of interest and the pertinent summary of the evaluation reports of bids
and proposals of all goods, works, non-consulting services and consultants’
services procured by the Borrower, through SE, shall be published in the web page
of the Borrower’s Office of National Procurement (Oficina Nacional de
Contrataciones), and in a manner acceptable to the Bank. The bidding period shall
be counted from the date of publication of the invitation to bid or the date of the
availability of the bidding documents, whichever is later, to the date of bid
opening;

the provisions set forth in paragraphs 2.49, 2.50, 2.52, 2.53, 2.54 and 2.59 of the
Procurement Guidelines shall also be applicable to contracts for goods, works and
non-consulting services to be procured under National Competitive Bidding
procedures;
(1)

G)

(k)

(1)

(m)

(n)
(0)

(p)

-|3-

references to bidders in one or more specialized magazines shall not be used by
the Borrower, through SE, in determining if the bidder in respect of goods whose
bid has been determined to be the lowest evaluated bid has the capability and
resources to effectively carry out the contract as offered in the bid, as referred to
in the provision set forth in paragraph 2.58 of the Procurement Guidelines. The
provision set forth in paragraph 2.58 of the Procurement Guidelines (including the
limitation set forth herein) shall also be applicable to contracts for goods to be
procured under National Competitive Bidding procedures;

witness prices shall not be used as a parameter for bid evaluation, bid rejection or
contract award;

the Borrower, through SE, shall: (i) supply SEPA with the information contained
in the initial Procurement Plan within 30 days after the Project has been approved
by the Bank; and (ii) update the Procurement Plan at least every three months, or
as required by the Bank, to reflect the actual Project implementation needs and
progress and shall supply SEPA with the information contained in the updated
Procurement Plan immediately thereafter;

the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids shall apply to goods
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower in respect of contracts for goods to
be procured under International Competitive Bidding procedures;

compliance by bidders with the norms issued by ISO with respect to any given
good procured under the Project shall not be used as parameter for contract award;

_ consultants shall not be required to submit bid or performance securities;

contracts of goods, works and non-consulting services shall not be awarded to the
“most convenient” bid, but rather to the bidder whose bid has been determined: (i)
to be substantially responsive; and (ii) to offer the lowest evaluated bid, provided
that said bidder has demonstrated to the Borrower, through SE, to be qualified to
perform the contract satisfactorily; and

the types of contracts described in Section IV of the Consultant Guidelines shall
be the only types of contracts to be used by the Borrower, through SE, in
connection with the contracting of consultants’ services provided by a firm and to
be financed with the proceeds of the Loan.

Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services

International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of International Competitive Bidding.

haat ptm manNin an PON ReeeM severe RAR NS: ANd “beeen
-|4-

Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services. The
following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used for
procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for those contracts specified in
the Procurement Plan: (a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the provisions set forth
in A 4 above; (b) Shopping; and (c) Direct Contracting.

Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services

Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality and
Cost-based Selection.

Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following methods, other
than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for procurement of consultants’
services for those contracts which are specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based
Selection; (b) Selection under a Fixed Budget; (c) Least Cost Selection: (d) Selection based
on Consultants’ Qualifications; (e) Single-source Selection of consulting firms; (f)
Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for the

Selection of Individual Consultants; and (g) Single-source procedures for the Selection of |

Individual Consultants.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s
Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.

Section IV. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

A.

l.

 

General

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as the
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World Bank Disbursement
Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as
made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.

The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures
in each Category.

 

3
:
g
5
Ps
@

4
i
z
&
3:
ze
¢
:
a
t
¥

: . * : . ‘ = BEM ACRE eae SOR Se oheres g hy
J BRISS ORS LES EA ae ee lS Jodo SURES USES LAG GR ER Be vie.

be
z
%
a
Be,

 

Beyer HC pH ERENT om ag am BY

£Ukg eWeek M
m S

 
swe messes

-15-

tte nee egal tem maar ar 9 meme in ee A es Nee fe te tt Si A Se RR lhl TLR LLLR AAT NY We re

1

Category Amount ofthe Loan | Percentage of Expenditures.
Allocated to be financed
(expressed in USD) (inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods and Works under 190,800,000 100%

Parts 1 and 2 of the Project

 
 

(2) Goods, Consultants’ 8,700,000 100%
services (including audits),

| Non-consulting services,
Training and Operating Costs
under Parts 3 and 4 of the

Project

     
 
   
   
 
    
  

     

500,000 Amount payable pursuant to
Section 2.03 of _ this
Agreement in accordance with
Section 2.07 (b) of the General

Conditions

 

(3) Front-end Fee

  

  
   
 
    
  
  
 

   
   

   
 

Amount due pursuant to
Section 2.08(c) of this
Agreement

TOTAL AMOUNT 200,000,000 Pp

3. For purposes of this table:

(4) Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar premium

    
 

(a) the term “Training” means expenditures (other than those for consultants’ services)
incurred by the Borrower, through SE, all as approved by the Bank on the basis of
an annual budget acceptable to the Bank, to finance reasonable transportation costs
and per-diem of trainees and trainers (if applicable), training registration fees,
trainers fees, catering for the training, translations services and rental of training
facilities and equipment under the Project; and

(b) the term “Operating Costs” means reasonable recurrent expenditures, based on an
annual budget previously approved by the Bank, that would not have been incurred
by the Borrower, through SE, absent the Project, for transportation and per-diem
costs of the PCU staff, Project administration costs (including office rent),
operation and maintenance of office equipment, rental of vehicles, and non-durable
goods (but excluding salaries).

B. Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
l. Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made for

payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed forty million Dollars ($40,000,000) of the total Loan
-16-

amount may be made for payments made up to twelve months prior to the date of signature
of this Agreement, for Eligible Expenditures under the Project.

The Closing Date is October 31, 2020.

 
_[7-

SCHEDULE 3

Amortization Schedule

l. The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage
of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date
(“Installment Share”). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a)
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment
Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary,
to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency

     
  
 

        
 

  
   

  

Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date Installment Share
Expressed as a Percentage
Beginning on October 15, 2019
through April 15, 2049 1.64%
2. If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment
Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal

On each April 15 and October 15
On October 15, 2049 1.60%
Payment Date shall be determined as follows:

(a) To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance as
of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.

(b) Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal bya
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Onginal
Installment Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.

3. (a) Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any Principal
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding
on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall

A tia enki een ipene mmm ee BoE Tae net oO BT oa
a

-18-

be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.

(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on
or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such
billing system.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved Currency,
the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any Principal
Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to the
Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the
Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating
to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.

If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan
Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.

eer,

POSES CREP BEE ARLE SES Oe RN LE NI 8 a

eyes

Z

we

 
-}9-

APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

l.

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud
and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”, dated
October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.

“Bank Safeguard Policies” means the Bank’s operational policies and procedures set forth
in the Bank’s Operational Manual under OP/BPs 4.01, 4.04. 4.09, 4.10, 4.11, 4.12, 4.36,
4.37, 7.50 and 7.60 as said manual is published under www. WorldBank.org/opmanual.

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement. .

“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants

under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers” dated J anuary

2011 (revised July 2014).

“Environmental and Social Management Framework” or “EMSF” means Marco para el
Manejo Ambiental y Social -MaGAS, the Borrower’s framework dated October 29, 2014
acceptable to the Bank which contains, inter alia, the environmental protection measures in
respect of the Project, including: (a) measures for chance findings of physical cultural
property; (b) protection of natural habitats; (c) guidelines for the identification of existing
environmental conditions and potential direct and indirect environmental impacts resulting
from the carrying out of the Project (including Subprojects); (d) guidelines for the carrying
out of environmental assessments and the preparation of environmental management
plans, when applicable; (e) the recommendation of mitigation measures for each negative
impact identified; and (f) measures for enhancing each identified positive impact; as said
framework may be updated and/or amended from time to time with the agreement of the
Bank.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for Loans”, dated March 12, 2012, with the modifications set forth in
Section II of this Appendix.

“Indigenous People Policy Framework” or “IPPF” means Marco Para Pueblos Indigenas,
the Borrower’s indigenous peoples framework dated November 14, 2014, acceptable to the
Bank, setting forth the indigenous peoples policy framework applicable to all the activities
to be carried out under the Project and the basis and procedures to prepare specific
indigenous peoples’ plans or related instruments during Project implementation; as said
framework may be updated and/or amended from time to time with the agreement of the
Bank.

“ISO” means International Organization for Standardization, an international-standard-
setting body composed of representatives from various national standards organizations
which issues world-wide proprietary industrial and commercial standards for products.
11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

17.

18.

-2()-

“Operation, Maintenance and Replacement Agreement” means any agreement or
amendment between a Participating Province and a Qualified Service Provider, referred to
in Section I.B.1(g)(ii) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

““Operational Manual” means the Borrower’s manual dated January 15, 2015, acceptable
to the Bank, which sets forth, inter alia: (a) the structures, functions and responsibilities of
the PCU; (b) the criteria for selecting Participating Provinces; (c) the criteria for selecting
Qualified Service Providers to participate under the Project; (d) the eligibility criteria and
procedures for the selection, approval and carrying out, monitoring and supervision of
Subprojects; (e) the Project’s chart of accounts and internal controls; (f) the model
Participating Agreement; (g) the format of: (A) the unaudited interim financial reports
referred to in Section II. B.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and (B) the Financial
Statements; (h) the terms of reference for carrying out the Project audits under Section
II.B.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; (i) the Project indicators (including the results
framework); and (}) the Project disbursement and procurement procedures; said manual
may be updated and/or amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank.

“Participation Agreement” means any agreement or amendment between the Borrower,
through SE, and each Participating Province, referred to in Section L.B.1 of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.

“Participating Province” means any of the political subdivisions of the Borrower as per
Title II of the Borrower’s National Constitution (Constitucion de la Nacion Argentina),
dated August 22, 1994, which meet the eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational
Manual (as defined above).

‘“PCU” means the unit established pursuant to the Borrower’s Decree No. 1119/99 of
October 26, 1999, or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.

“PEU” means any of the units referred to in Section LA.1 (c) of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.

“Pico PV” means portable Photo Voltaic (PV) systems which offer basic electricity
services such as lighting and communication.

“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and
Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers” dated January 2011 (revised July 2014).

“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, dated January
15, 2015 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph
1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in
accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.

“Resettlement” means the impact of an involuntary taking of land under the Project, which
taking causes affected persons to have their: (a) standard of living adversely affected; or

a
|

Sis «
20.

21.

22.

23.

(b) right, title or interest in any house, land (including premises, agricultural and grazing

land) or any other fixed or movable asset acquired or possessed, temporarily or
permanently; or (c) access to productive assets adversely affected, temporarily or
permanently; or (d) business, occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely
affected, temporarily or permanently.

“Resettlement Policy Framework” or “RPF” means Marco de Politica de Reasentamiento,
the Borrower’s framework dated November 14, 2014 acceptable to the Bank, outlining
general implementation procedures, mitigation measures and monitoring procedures for
Resettlement under the Project, including the procedures for preparation and
implementation of resettlement plans, when applicable, as said framework may be
amended from time to time with the Bank’s prior written approval.

“SE” means Secretaria de Energia, the Borrower’s Secretariat of Energy, established
within the Borrower’s Ministry of Federal Planning, Public Investment and Services, or
any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.

“SEPA” means the Bank’s publicly accessible Procurement Plans Execution System.

“Subproject” means any of the investments referred to under Parts 1 and 2 of the Project,
selected in accordance with the criteria and procedures set forth in the Operational Manual,
including, if applicable, the in-kind compensation referred to in Part 1 of the Project.

“Qualified Service Provider” means a public or private provider of Operation, maintenance
and replacement services, and/or electricity distribution services and/or solar thermal
energy services within the territorial jurisdiction of a Participating Province, all of which
meet the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual for carrying out the operation,
maintenance and replacement of the installed goods under the relevant Subproject.

Section I. Modifications to the General Conditions

 

The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:

In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section numbers
are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.

Section 3.01. (Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
“Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge

(a) The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at the rate
specified in the Loan Agreement (the “Front-end Fee”).

(b) The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the Unwithdrawn Loan
Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the “Commitment Charge”). The
Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the Loan
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from
0L

a det

the Loan Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi

-annually
in arrears on each Payment Date.”

In the Appendix, Definitions, all relevant references to Section numbers and paragraphs
are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth in paragraph 2 above.

The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following definition
of “Commitment Charge”, and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs accordingly:

“19. “Commitment Charge” means the commitment charge specified in the Loan
Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b).”

In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48) of the Appendix, the definition

of “Front-end Fee” is modified by replacing the reference to Section 3.01 with Section 3.01

(a).

In the renuinbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the definition
of the term “Loan Payment” is modified to read as follows:

“68. “Loan Payment” means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the Bank
pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including (but not limited
to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-end Fee, the
Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any prepayment
premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of a Conversion, the
Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable upon the establishment of

an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding Amount payable by the
Borrower.”

In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the definition
of “Payment Date” is modified by deleting the word “is” and inserting the words “and
Commitment Charge are” after the word “interest”.

SP SRG EPG REY i SE PITE FRRTY E ON NE A RC ARE I I Re

ek

gle tre Soe

ao

cd
2
2
‘
“fd
4
4
»
‘
i
e
uA
3
d
fa
4
uy
4
‘2:

 
